No Instances	Plants species	Family	Attractive	Mosquito species	Legend	Country	Purposes of the study	Selection of plants	Methodology	ID of study	Year	First author 	Title	Publication Title	Volume (Issue)	Pages	DOI	Abstract
1	Avicennia nitida	Acanthaceae	Yes	Aedes taeniorhynchus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1955_216	1955	J. S. Haeger	"The non-blood feeding habits of Aedes taeniorhynchus (Diptera: Culicidae) on Sanibel Island, Florida"	Mosquito News	15 (1)	21-26		"The feeding of mosquitoes on nectar producing plants was reviewed by Howard, Dyar and Knab (1912), and more recently by Hocking (1953) whose extensive observations in the Arctic are an exception to the more or less casual observations reported elsewhere in the literature. Such feeding o salt-marsh mosquitoes has not so far been reported beyond the observation of Smith (1904) on Aeds sollicitans in New Jersey: 'I have seen both sexes of this species feeding in the blossoms of wild cherry and it is quite probable that vegetable juices form a considerable element in the food of this species'."
2	Avicennia nitida	Acanthaceae	Yes	Aedes taeniorhynchus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1960_29	1960	J. S. Haeger	"Behavior preceding migration in the salt-marsh mosquito, Aedes  taeniorhynchus (Wiedemann)"	Mosquito News	20 (2)	136-147		"The flight behavior patterns of migrant A. taeniorhynchus during the exodus from the breeding sites are described for four large emergences. It was found that feeding on nectar takes place before exodus if flowers are present, and that matings occur during the exodus if males are old enough to copulate. Under certain unknown conditions the potential migrants ""mill-around"" high up in the air, both during and after exodus and presumably before the migratory flight begins. The directional flight, of the migrants was observed visually for the first time. The direction of the departing migrants seems to be determined mostly by the wind, being upwind in wind velocities of 1/4 m./sec. and downwind in wind velocities over 1-1/2 m./sec. In the one instance of the mosquitoes flying towards the sunset the weather was calm with no leaf movement at the top of the trees but it is not known if there were imperceptible air currents above the trees which influenced the flight direction."
3	Barleria lupulina 	Acanthaceae	Yes	Anopheles coluzzi	Other Anopheles species	Burkina Faso 	Effect	"Present, Previously studied"	Lab	Hien_2016_140	2016	"D. F. d. S. Hien, K. R. Dabire, B. Roche, A. Diabate, R. S. Yerbanga, A. Cohuet, B. K. Yameogo, L. C. Gouagna, R. J. Hopkins, G. A. Ouedraogo, F. Simard, J. B. Ouedraogo, R. Ignell, T. Lefevre, K. R. Dabiré, B. Roche, A. Diabaté, R. S. Yerbanga, A. Cohuet, B. K. Yameogo, L. C. Gouagna, R. J. Hopkins, G. A. Ouedraogo, F. Simard, J. B. Ouedraogo, R. Ignell, T. Lefevre, K. R. Dabire, B. Roche, A."	Plant-Mediated Effects on Mosquito Capacity to Transmit Human Malaria	PLoS Pathogens	12 (8)	e1005773	10.1371/journal.ppat.1005773	"The ecological context in which mosquitoes and malaria parasites interact has received little attention, compared to the genetic and molecular aspects of malaria transmission. Plant nectar and fruits are important for the nutritional ecology of malaria vectors, but how the natural diversity of plant-derived sugar sources affects mosquito competence for malaria parasites is unclear. To test this, we infected Anopheles coluzzi, an important African malaria vector, with sympatric field isolates of Plasmodium falciparum, using direct membrane feeding assays. Through a series of experiments, we then examined the effects of sugar meals from Thevetia neriifolia and Barleria lupilina cuttings that included flowers, and fruit from Lannea microcarpa and Mangifera indica on parasite and mosquito traits that are key for determining the intensity of malaria transmission. We found that the source of plant sugar meal differentially affected infection prevalence and intensity, the development duration of the parasites, as well as the survival and fecundity of the vector. These effects are likely the result of complex interactions between toxic secondary metabolites and the nutritional quality of the plant sugar source, as well as of host resource availability and parasite growth. Using an epidemiological model, we show that plant sugar source can be a significant driver of malaria transmission dynamics, with some plant species exhibiting either transmission-reducing or -enhancing activities."
4	Viburnum acerifolium	Adoxaceae	High	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
5	Viburnum acerifolium	Adoxaceae	High	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
6	Beta vulgaris	Amaranthaceae	Yes	Culex tarsalis	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Lab	Schaefer_1972_158	1972	C. H. Schaefer and T. Miura	"Sources of energy utilized by natural populations of the mosquito, Culex tarsalis, for overwintering"	Journal of Insect Physiology	18 (4)	97-805	10.1016/0022-1910(72)90204-1	"During the fall and winter Culex tarsalis adults feed on sugars, presumably from plants, which they utilize for the synthesis of triglycerides and perhaps directly. Glucose and fructose are the predominant compounds identified in crop liquids, but melezitose sometimes accounts for about one-third of the total sugars and trehalose and raffinose frequently account for about 5 to 10 per cent. The usual absence of sucrose in the crop sugars may largely be due to the action of salivary enzymes which readily cleave it to monosaccharides. Trehalose and raffinose are relatively stable to the action of the salivary enzymes, but melezitose is slowly cleaved to monosaccharides. In laboratory cage experiments C. tarsalis females obtained sugars from the flowers of weeds as well as from other plant sources which were offered, e.g. sugar beet tubers and raisins; thus, this mosquito appears to be able to obtain energy from a wide variety of sources"
7	Salicornia fruticosa	Amaranthaceae	Yes	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Egypt	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Abdel-Malek_1964_226	1964	A. A. Abdel-Malek	Study of the feeding habits of male Anopheles sergentii Theo. at Sixa oasis using radiophosphorus 	Bulletin of the World Health Organization	30 (1)	137-139		"The development of resistance to insecticides by numerous species of mosquitos has focused attention on the need for supplementary and alternative control procedures. Assessments are thus now being made of the potentialities of various types of ecological control, and in this connexion a need has been felt for more specific information in the neg- lected area of the feeding habits of male mosquitos innature.
Specificity of plant feeding having recently been demonstrated for the males of four species of Aedes in Canada,a the present WHO-sponsored study was designed to investigate the suitability of the various plants of an ecologically isolated habitat as food for male Anopheles sergenti Theo. and the natural feeding habits of these insects. The project was undertaken at Siwa Oasis, from 19 May to 28 June 1963."
8	Mangifera indica 	Anacardiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Burkina Faso	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Gouagna_2010_135	2010	"L. C. Gouagna, R. S. Poueme, K. R. Dabiré, J. B. Ouédraogo, D. Fontenille and F. Simard"	Patterns of sugar feeding and host plant preferences in adult males of An. gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of Vector Ecology	35 (2)	267-276	10.1111/j.1948-7134.2010.00082.x	"Sugar feeding by male mosquitoes is critical for their success in mating competition. However, the facets of sugar source finding under natural conditions remain unknown. Here, evidence obtained in Western Burkina Faso indicated that the distribution of An. gambiae s.s. (M and S molecular forms) males across different peri-domestic habitats is dependent on the availability of potential sugar sources from which they obtain more favorable sites for feeding or resting. Among field-collected anophelines, a higher proportion of specimens containing fructose were found on flowering Mangifera indica (Anacardiaceae), Dolonix regia (Fabaceae), Thevetia neriifolia (Apocynaceae), Senna siamea, and Cassia sieberiana (both Fabaceae) compared to that recorded on other nearby plants, suggesting that some plants are favored for use as a sugar source over others. Y-tube olfactometer assays with newly-emerged An. gambiae s.s. exposed to odors from individual plants and some combinations thereof showed that males use odor cues to guide their preference. The number of sugar-positive males was variable in a no-choice cage assay, consistent with the olfactory response patterns towards corresponding odor stimuli. These experiments provide the first evidence both in field and laboratory conditions for previously unstudied interactions between males of An. gambiae and natural sugar sources."
9	Aegopodium podagraria	Apiaceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
10	Anthriscus sylvestris	Apiaceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
11	Daucus carota	Apiaceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
12	Daucus carota	Apiaceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
13	Daucus carota	Apiaceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
14	Daucus carota	Apiaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
15	Apocynum androsaemifolium	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
16	Apocynum androsaemifolium	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
17	Apocynum medium	Apocynaceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
18	Apocynum medium	Apocynaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
19	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
20	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Anopheles walkeri	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
21	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Anopheles earlei	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
22	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Anopheles punctipennis	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
23	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Anopheles aurifer	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
24	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
25	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes	Aedes dorsalis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
26	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
27	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
28	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
29	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes fitchii	Aedes fitchii	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
30	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
31	Catharanthus roseus	Apocynaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Yu_2016_172	2016	"B. T. Yu, Y. M. Ding, X. C. Mo, N. Liu, H. J. Li and J. C. Mo"	Survivorship and fecundity of Culex pipiens pallens feeding on flowering plants and seed pods with differential preferences	Acta Tropica	155	51-57	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.12.015	"Adult mosquitoes rely on ingestion of sugar from plants to survive, swarm and mate. Culex pipiens pallens Coguillett is the primary vector of lymphatic filariasis and epidemic encephalitis. Little is known about the effect of feeding on different sugar sources on the survivorship and fecundity of Cx. pipiens pallens. In the present study, newly emerged mosquitoes were exposed to several flowering plant and seed pod species with different olfactory preferences, and the survival times of mosquitoes exposed to these sugar sources were determined. The proportions of mosquitoes that ingested sugar from host plants were investigated by cold anthrone tests. The numbers of eggs per egg raft laid by mosquitoes were compared when they were provided with different sugar sources and one blood meal. The results revealed that feeding on different kinds of sugar sources significantly affected female and male mosquitoes’ survival times. Cold anthrone tests indicated that the proportions of sugar-positive mosquitoes from different nutritional regimes within 24h corresponded to the preference rankings of Cx. pipiens pallens to these sugar sources, and rapid declines in the proportions of surviving individuals might be attributed to their insufficient ingestion of sugar from nutritional regimes. Feeding on different sugar sources strongly affected the proportions of engorged mosquitoes, and females that had fed on their preferred sugar sources laid more eggs than mosquitoes provided with less preferred sugar sources. The results would provide insights in developing mosquito control strategies that target the sugar feeding behavior of mosquitoes."
32	Leptadenia pyrotechnica	Apocynaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
33	Nerium indicum	Apocynaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Yu_2016_172	2016	"B. T. Yu, Y. M. Ding, X. C. Mo, N. Liu, H. J. Li and J. C. Mo"	Survivorship and fecundity of Culex pipiens pallens feeding on flowering plants and seed pods with differential preferences	Acta Tropica	155	51-57	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.12.015	"Adult mosquitoes rely on ingestion of sugar from plants to survive, swarm and mate. Culex pipiens pallens Coguillett is the primary vector of lymphatic filariasis and epidemic encephalitis. Little is known about the effect of feeding on different sugar sources on the survivorship and fecundity of Cx. pipiens pallens. In the present study, newly emerged mosquitoes were exposed to several flowering plant and seed pod species with different olfactory preferences, and the survival times of mosquitoes exposed to these sugar sources were determined. The proportions of mosquitoes that ingested sugar from host plants were investigated by cold anthrone tests. The numbers of eggs per egg raft laid by mosquitoes were compared when they were provided with different sugar sources and one blood meal. The results revealed that feeding on different kinds of sugar sources significantly affected female and male mosquitoes’ survival times. Cold anthrone tests indicated that the proportions of sugar-positive mosquitoes from different nutritional regimes within 24h corresponded to the preference rankings of Cx. pipiens pallens to these sugar sources, and rapid declines in the proportions of surviving individuals might be attributed to their insufficient ingestion of sugar from nutritional regimes. Feeding on different sugar sources strongly affected the proportions of engorged mosquitoes, and females that had fed on their preferred sugar sources laid more eggs than mosquitoes provided with less preferred sugar sources. The results would provide insights in developing mosquito control strategies that target the sugar feeding behavior of mosquitoes."
34	Nerium indicum 	Apocynaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab	Yu_2018_62	2018	"B. T. Yu, Y. Hu, Y. M. Ding, J. X. Tian and J. C. Mo"	Feeding on different attractive flowering plants affects the energy reserves of Culex pipiens pallens adults	Parasitology Research	117 (1)	67-73	10.1007/s00436-017-5664-y	"Mosquito adults usually need to ingest sugar from nectar host plants to sustain their metabolic needs. Mosquitoes could be differentially attracted by various flowering plant species, and the volatiles were thought to be important factors attributed to the differential attractiveness. However, whether mosquitoes' preference for host plants correlates with their nutritional rewards from sugar sources remains unclear. In the present study, the preference of newly emerged Culex pipiens pallens to three kinds of flowering plants (Ligustrum quihoui, Abelia chinensis, and Nerium indicum) was determined in the olfactometer. Besides, when the newly emerged mosquitoes were provided with these flowering plants as sugar sources, the content of their metabolic reserves (glycogen, lipid, and protein) was determined. The results revealed that Cx. pipiens pallens could be differentially attracted by the odors emitted by the inflorescences of the tested flowering plants, and the nutritional rewards of mosquitoes were significantly affected by feeding on different inflorescences. The present study demonstrated that feeding on nectar host plants with differential attraction could affect the energy reserves of Cx. pipiens pallens."
35	Thevetia neriifolia	Apocynaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Burkina Faso	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Gouagna_2010_135	2010	"L. C. Gouagna, R. S. Poueme, K. R. Dabiré, J. B. Ouédraogo, D. Fontenille and F. Simard"	Patterns of sugar feeding and host plant preferences in adult males of An. gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of Vector Ecology	35 (2)	267-276	10.1111/j.1948-7134.2010.00082.x	"Sugar feeding by male mosquitoes is critical for their success in mating competition. However, the facets of sugar source finding under natural conditions remain unknown. Here, evidence obtained in Western Burkina Faso indicated that the distribution of An. gambiae s.s. (M and S molecular forms) males across different peri-domestic habitats is dependent on the availability of potential sugar sources from which they obtain more favorable sites for feeding or resting. Among field-collected anophelines, a higher proportion of specimens containing fructose were found on flowering Mangifera indica (Anacardiaceae), Dolonix regia (Fabaceae), Thevetia neriifolia (Apocynaceae), Senna siamea, and Cassia sieberiana (both Fabaceae) compared to that recorded on other nearby plants, suggesting that some plants are favored for use as a sugar source over others. Y-tube olfactometer assays with newly-emerged An. gambiae s.s. exposed to odors from individual plants and some combinations thereof showed that males use odor cues to guide their preference. The number of sugar-positive males was variable in a no-choice cage assay, consistent with the olfactory response patterns towards corresponding odor stimuli. These experiments provide the first evidence both in field and laboratory conditions for previously unstudied interactions between males of An. gambiae and natural sugar sources."
36	Thevetia neriifolia	Apocynaceae	Yes	Anopheles coluzzi	Other Anopheles species	Burkina Faso 	Effect	"Present, Previously studied"	Lab	Hien_2016_140	2016	"D. F. d. S. Hien, K. R. Dabire, B. Roche, A. Diabate, R. S. Yerbanga, A. Cohuet, B. K. Yameogo, L. C. Gouagna, R. J. Hopkins, G. A. Ouedraogo, F. Simard, J. B. Ouedraogo, R. Ignell, T. Lefevre, K. R. Dabiré, B. Roche, A. Diabaté, R. S. Yerbanga, A. Cohuet, B. K. Yameogo, L. C. Gouagna, R. J. Hopkins, G. A. Ouedraogo, F. Simard, J. B. Ouedraogo, R. Ignell, T. Lefevre, K. R. Dabire, B. Roche, A."	Plant-Mediated Effects on Mosquito Capacity to Transmit Human Malaria	PLoS Pathogens	12 (8)	e1005773	10.1371/journal.ppat.1005773	"The ecological context in which mosquitoes and malaria parasites interact has received little attention, compared to the genetic and molecular aspects of malaria transmission. Plant nectar and fruits are important for the nutritional ecology of malaria vectors, but how the natural diversity of plant-derived sugar sources affects mosquito competence for malaria parasites is unclear. To test this, we infected Anopheles coluzzi, an important African malaria vector, with sympatric field isolates of Plasmodium falciparum, using direct membrane feeding assays. Through a series of experiments, we then examined the effects of sugar meals from Thevetia neriifolia and Barleria lupilina cuttings that included flowers, and fruit from Lannea microcarpa and Mangifera indica on parasite and mosquito traits that are key for determining the intensity of malaria transmission. We found that the source of plant sugar meal differentially affected infection prevalence and intensity, the development duration of the parasites, as well as the survival and fecundity of the vector. These effects are likely the result of complex interactions between toxic secondary metabolites and the nutritional quality of the plant sugar source, as well as of host resource availability and parasite growth. Using an epidemiological model, we show that plant sugar source can be a significant driver of malaria transmission dynamics, with some plant species exhibiting either transmission-reducing or -enhancing activities."
37	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Culiseta silvestris minnesotae	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
38	Amorphophallus gigas	Araceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Indonesia	Identification	Characteristics	Field	Rambey_2021_250	2021	"R. Rambey, A. B. Rangkuti, Onrizal, A. Susilowaty, N. Wijayanto, I. Z. Siregar"	"Phenology of the bunga bangkai (Amorphophallus gigas) in North Padang Lawas, North Sumatra Province, Indonesia"	IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science	782 (3)	32019	10.1088/1755-1315/782/3/032019	"The “bunga bangkai” is a compound interest with spadix and solitary inflorescences. Amorphophallus gigas is one of several species of Amorphophallus which is endemic to Sumatra. One of the original habitats for A. gigas is found in North Padang Lawas and is found in bloom almost all year round. This study aimed to observe the phenology of A. gigas in North Padang Lawas Regency, precisely in Bargottopong Village which was found on a rubber agroforestry land in one of the communities. Observations were made every 3 days, starting from the buds being found to the wilted state. Observations were made since it was discovered on February 25th, 2020, with a height of 58 cm with a shape that is still bud to wither (broken appendix and spatha withered) March 14th, 2020. From the time it was found to wither it only lasted 19 days. There are 6 species of animals found when the “bunga bangkai” blooms, including flies (Musca domistica), fleas (Tribolium confusum), forest mosquitoes (Aedes albipictus), ants (Camponutus sp), beetles (Plagiodera sp), and moths (Scania olivares)."
39	Asclepias curassavica	Asclepiadaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
40	Asclepias curassavica	Asclepiadaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
41	Maianthemum canadense	Asparagaceae	Yes 	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
42	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
43	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
44	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Peach_2016_114	2016	D. A. H. Peach and G. Gries	Nectar thieves or invited pollinators? A case study of tansy flowers and common house mosquitoes	Arthropod-Plant Interactions	10 (6)	497-506	10.1007/s11829-016-9445-9	"Mosquitoes are generally considered nectar thieves that do not contribute to the pollination of the flowers they visit. Here we tested the hypothesis that the common house mosquito, Culex pipiens, contributes to the pollination of tansies, Tanacetum vulgare, and possibly the pollination of other members of the Asteraceae (Achillea millefolium, Leucanthemum vulgare, Solidago canadensis). To test this hypothesis, we (1) field-collected mosquitoes probing inflorescences of T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and L. vulgare, and recorded the number and distribution of pollen grains on their bodies, (2) exposed laboratory-reared Cx. pipiens to inflorescences of T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and S. canadensis, and (3) ran pollination experiments with Cx. pipiens and T. vulgare in a greenhouse. We found (1) that 41 of 164 field-collected Cx. pipiens carried pollen, (2) that 48, 34, and 34% of Cx. pipiens accumulated pollen from T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and S. canadensis, respectively, during floral visits of greenhouse-grown specimens, and (3) that cross-pollination by Cx. pipiens resulted in significant seed set of T. vulgare in pollination experiments. Based on our observations that Cx. pipiens are frequent floral visitors and are able to carry pollen and to induce seed set in T. vulgare, it is clear that Cx. pipiens plays a role in the pollination of T. vulgare, and possibly other members of the Asteraceae."
45	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles walkeri	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
46	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles earlei	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
47	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles aurifer	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
48	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles arabiensis	Other Anopheles species	UK	Identification	Previously studied	Lab	Healy_1988_190	1988	T. P. Healy and P. C. Jepson	The location of floral nectar sources by mosquitoes: the long-range responses of Anopheles arabiensis Patton (Diptera: Culicidae) to Achillea millefolium flowers and isolated floral odour	Bulletin of Entomological Research	78 (4)	651-657	10.1017/S0007485300015509	"A wind-tunnel bioassay system, developed previously for the evaluation of long-range host-location stimuli, was used to investigate the responses of Anopheles arabiensis Patton to floral odours. Mosquitoes were found to respond by flight and landing to Achillea millefolium inflorescences and also to the odour of A. millefolium in the absence of visual stimuli. An air-entrainment technique was used to extract floral odours for biological and chemical testing. Both sexes of Anopheles arabiensis were found to respond to the floral odour extract. The major component of the floral odour was tentatively identified as a cyclic or bicyclic monoterpene."
49	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles messeae 	Other Anopheles species	Sweden	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Thomas_1991_149	1991	"G. Thomas, T. G. T. Jaenson, B. Ameneshewa, G. Thomas, T. G. T. Jaenson and B. Ameneshewa"	Prehibernation diet and reproductive condition of female Anopheles messeae in Sweden	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	5 (2)	243-252	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1991.tb00547.x	"Blood and sugar feeding in the mosquito Anopheles messeae Falleroni were investigated near Uppsala, Sweden, from 1981 to 1985, with emphasis on prehibernation diet. Fructose, indicating plant feeding, was present in females of all ovarian stages, from April to October, and contributed to fat body development in non_gonoactive females before hibernation. An.messeae males and females (inseminated and uninseminated) were observed feeding on floral nectaries of the plants Achillea millefolium L. and Tanacetum vulgare L. at night during August. Gonotrophic dissociation started in some females in July, and by the end of September all females were inseminated and nulliparous but non_gonoactive. Animal sheds were used as diurnal resting sites of non_gonoactive, prehibernating female An. messeae. Among recently fed mosquitoes in that group, 85% were gut positive for fructose and 15% for blood. Most of them showed negative host tropism, indicating that bloodfeeding is not a prerequisite for hibernation. Survival rates of bloodfed (48 ± 31 days) and non_bloodfed (42 ± 21 days) females, collected from a cattle shed in September and kept caged without food or water in a store house, were not significantly different. This indicates that bloodfeeding may occur facultatively before hibernation but does not affect longevity and survival. If overwintering is possible for bloodfed An.messeae females, they would be more likely vectors of pathogens such as Batai virus."
50	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
51	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
52	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
53	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
54	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
55	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
56	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
57	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
58	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	High	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
59	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
60	Achillea millefolium 	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
61	Achillea millefolium 	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cantator 	Aedes cantator 	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
62	Achillea millefolium 	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
63	Ageratina altissima	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
64	Ageratina altissima	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
65	Asclepias syriaca	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
66	Asclepias syriaca	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
67	Bidens spp.	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes taeniorhynchus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1960_29	1960	J. S. Haeger	"Behavior preceding migration in the salt-marsh mosquito, Aedes"	Mosquito News	20 (2)	136-147		"The flight behavior patterns of migrant A. taeniorhynchus during the exodus from the breeding sites are described for four large emergences. It was found that feeding on nectar takes place before exodus if flowers are present, and that matings occur during the exodus if males are old enough to copulate. Under certain unknown conditions the potential migrants ""mill-around"" high up in the air, both during and after exodus and presumably before the migratory flight begins. The directional flight, of the migrants was observed visually for the first time. The direction of the departing migrants seems to be determined mostly by the wind, being upwind in wind velocities of 1/4 m./sec. and downwind in wind velocities over 1-1/2 m./sec. In the one instance of the mosquitoes flying towards the sunset the weather was calm with no leaf movement at the top of the trees but it is not known if there were imperceptible air currents above the trees which influenced the flight direction."
68	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
69	Cirsium arvense	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
70	Eupatorium perfoliatum	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
71	Eupatorium perfoliatum	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles earlei	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
72	Eupatorium rugosum	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
73	Eupatorium rugosum	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
74	Eupatorium spp.	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes taeniorhynchus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1960_29	1960	J. S. Haeger	"Behavior preceding migration in the salt-marsh mosquito, Aedes"	Mosquito News	20 (2)	136-147		"The flight behavior patterns of migrant A. taeniorhynchus during the exodus from the breeding sites are described for four large emergences. It was found that feeding on nectar takes place before exodus if flowers are present, and that matings occur during the exodus if males are old enough to copulate. Under certain unknown conditions the potential migrants ""mill-around"" high up in the air, both during and after exodus and presumably before the migratory flight begins. The directional flight, of the migrants was observed visually for the first time. The direction of the departing migrants seems to be determined mostly by the wind, being upwind in wind velocities of 1/4 m./sec. and downwind in wind velocities over 1-1/2 m./sec. In the one instance of the mosquitoes flying towards the sunset the weather was calm with no leaf movement at the top of the trees but it is not known if there were imperceptible air currents above the trees which influenced the flight direction."
75	Helianthus annuus 	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex tarsalis	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Lab	Schaefer_1972_158	1972	C. H. Schaefer and T. Miura	"Sources of energy utilized by natural populations of the mosquito, Culex tarsalis, for overwintering"	Journal of Insect Physiology	19 (4)	97-806	10.1016/0022-1910(72)90204-2	"During the fall and winter Culex tarsalis adults feed on sugars, presumably from plants, which they utilize for the synthesis of triglycerides and perhaps directly. Glucose and fructose are the predominant compounds identified in crop liquids, but melezitose sometimes accounts for about one-third of the total sugars and trehalose and raffinose frequently account for about 5 to 10 per cent. The usual absence of sucrose in the crop sugars may largely be due to the action of salivary enzymes which readily cleave it to monosaccharides. Trehalose and raffinose are relatively stable to the action of the salivary enzymes, but melezitose is slowly cleaved to monosaccharides. In laboratory cage experiments C. tarsalis females obtained sugars from the flowers of weeds as well as from other plant sources which were offered, e.g. sugar beet tubers and raisins; thus, this mosquito appears to be able to obtain energy from a wide variety of sources"
76	Heterotheca grandiflora 	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex tarsalis	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Lab	Schaefer_1972_158	1972	C. H. Schaefer and T. Miura	"Sources of energy utilized by natural populations of the mosquito, Culex tarsalis, for overwintering"	Journal of Insect Physiology	20 (4)	97-807	10.1016/0022-1910(72)90204-3	"During the fall and winter Culex tarsalis adults feed on sugars, presumably from plants, which they utilize for the synthesis of triglycerides and perhaps directly. Glucose and fructose are the predominant compounds identified in crop liquids, but melezitose sometimes accounts for about one-third of the total sugars and trehalose and raffinose frequently account for about 5 to 10 per cent. The usual absence of sucrose in the crop sugars may largely be due to the action of salivary enzymes which readily cleave it to monosaccharides. Trehalose and raffinose are relatively stable to the action of the salivary enzymes, but melezitose is slowly cleaved to monosaccharides. In laboratory cage experiments C. tarsalis females obtained sugars from the flowers of weeds as well as from other plant sources which were offered, e.g. sugar beet tubers and raisins; thus, this mosquito appears to be able to obtain energy from a wide variety of sources"
77	Hieracium pratense	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
78	Hieracium pratense	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
79	Hieracium pratense	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cantator 	Aedes cantator 	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
80	Hieracium pratense	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
81	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
82	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
83	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
84	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
85	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
86	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
87	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
88	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
89	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	UK	Identification	Previously studied	Lab	Jepson_1988_189	1988	P. C. Jepson and T. P. Healy	The location of floral nectar sources by mosquitoes: an advanced bioassay for volatile plant odours and initial studies with Aedes aegypti (L.) (Diptera: Culicidae)	Bulletin of Entomological Research	78 (4)	641-650	10.1017/S0007485300015492	"The development and testing of a bioassay system to evaluate the potency of floral odours as mediators of long-range floral nectar source location by mosquitoes are described. The bioassay is quantitative and behaviourally discriminating, upwind flying and landing acting as indices of behavioural activity over the 24-h light:dark cycle. In initial tests, the responses of Aedes aegypti (L.) to the flowers and floral odours of ox-eye daisy (Leucanthemum vulgare) were investigated. A. aegypti exhibited a biphasic diel cycle of nectar-feeding behaviour and landed on modified flowers that retained either their disc or ray florets. Most significantly, the mosquitoes responded in a similar way to the odour of L. vulgare in the absence of visual stimuli or nutritional cues. They did not respond to solvent extracts of ox-eye daisy flowers."
90	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
91	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
92	Leucanthemum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Yee_1992_157	1992	"W. L. Yee, W. A. Foster, M. J. Howe and R. G. Hancock"	Simultaneous field comparison of evening temporal distributions of nectar and blood feeding by Aedes vexans and Ae. trivittatus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Ohio	Journal of medical entomology	29 (2)	356-360	10.1093/jmedent/29.2.356	"Nectar- and blood-feeding time distributions of Aedes vexans (Meigen) and Aedes trivittatus (Coquillett) were determined from collections of mosquitoes attempting to feed on flowers and human bait during six nights in an Ohio field. Distributions of nectar and blood feeding were different in Ae. vexans on three of five nights when analyses were possible, and they were different in pooled Ae. trivittatus data. Higher proportions of blood feeders appeared in earlier time intervals, but both nectar and blood feeding had broadly overlapping peaks and distributions. These results suggest that the nectar- and blood-feeding rhythms are probably in phase in Ae. vexans females, and that possibly the earlier onset of blood feeding reflects a strategy taking advantage of blood when it is available. Male Ae. vexans had later peak nectar-feeding times than females. Nectar feeding in males may be delayed by mating activity early in the activity period."
93	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Manda_2007_220	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, W. A. Foster, R. R. Jackson, J. C. Beier, J. I. Githure and A. Hassanali"	Effect of discriminative plant-sugar feeding on the survival and fecundity of Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	6 (1)	113	10.1186/1475-2875-6-113	A previous study showed for Anopheles gambiae s.s. a gradation of feeding preference on common plant species growing in a malaria holoendemic area in western Kenya. The present follow-up study determines whether there is a relationship between the mosquito's preferences and its survival and fecundity.
94	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Identification	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Lab	Guseman_2014_215	2014	J.L. Guseman	Foraging Behavior of Anopheles gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae) on Parthenium hysterophorus (Compositae) and Senna occidentalis (Fabaceae)	"The Ohio State University. Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology Honors Theses; 2014"				"Foraging behavior of Anopheles gambiae, a malaria vector, was analyzed on Parthenium hysterophorus and Senna occidentalis through the use of video recordings. The two plant species are invasive plants known to be exceptionally attractive to An. gambiae but thought to yield very different amounts of sugar. With the importance of sugar as an energy reserve for flying, mating, blood feeding, and reproduction, foraging and finding access to sugar is a critical component of the life of a mosquito. Due to the differences in sugar production of the two plants, I hypothesized that foraging behavior of An. gambiae would differ greatly between the two plants, with more sugar being obtained from S. occidentalis On P. hysterophorus, the putative sugar- poor plant host, mosquitoes spent significantly more time on plants with flowers than without. On plants with flowers, both males and females exhibited a directed search for sugar, landing and foraging primarily on the prominent flowers and spending well over half of their time involved in foraging behavior (probing) on all parts of the plant. Males and females spent 80% and 58% of their time, respectively, on flowers, with 99% and 77% of that time devoted to foraging. However, for all their effort, they seldom obtained a sugar meal, with only 3.1% of males and 11.3% of females testing positive for fructose. On S. occidentalis, which produces visible amounts of sugar on prominent extra-floral nectaries, males and females spent 22% and 32% of their time, respectively, on EFNs, with 86% and 88% of that time devoted to foraging. After foraging on S. occidentalis, 46.2% of males and 50% of females were positive for fructose. S. occidentalis was more beneficial to An. gambiae in terms of energetics, and should be the focus of further malaria-control research."
95	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	"Present, Previously studied, Characteristics"	Lab	Nyasembe_2015_188	2015	"V. O. Nyasembe, X. Cheseto, F. Kaplan, W. A. Foster, P. E. A. Teal, J. H. Tumlinson, C. Borgemeister and B. Torto"	The invasive American weed parthenium hysterophorus can negatively impact malaria control in Africa	PLoS ONE	10 (9)	e0137836	10.1371/journal.pone.0137836	"The direct negative effects of invasive plant species on agriculture and biodiversity are well known, but their indirect effects on human health, and particularly their interactions with disease-transmitting vectors, remains poorly explored. This study sought to investigate the impact of the invasive Neotropical weed Parthenium hysterophorus and its toxins on the survival and energy reserves of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae. In this study, we compared the fitness of An. gambiae fed on three differentially attractive mosquito host plants and their major toxins; the highly aggressive invasive Neotropical weed Parthenium hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in East Africa and two other adapted weeds, Ricinus communis (Euphorbiaceae) and Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae). Our results showed that female An. gambiae fitness varied with host plants as females survived better and accumulated substantial energy reserves when fed on P. hysterophorus and R. communis compared to B. pilosa. Females tolerated parthenin and 1-phenylhepta-1, 3, 5-triyne, the toxins produced by P. hysterophorus and B. pilosa, respectively, but not ricinine produced by R. communis. Given that invasive plants like P. hysterophorus can suppress or even replace less competitive species that might be less suitable host-plants for arthropod disease vectors, the spread of invasive plants could lead to higher disease transmission. Parthenium hysterophorus represents a possible indirect effect of invasive plants on human health, which underpins the need to include an additional health dimension in risk-analysis modelling for invasive plants."
96	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nikbakhtzadeh_2016_171	2016	"M. R. Nikbakhtzadeh, J. W. Terbot and W. A. Foster"		Journal of Medical Entomology	53 (5)	1105-1111	10.1093/jme/tjw067	"Mosquitoes derive energy from plant sugar, thereby promoting survival and reproduction. Its survival value to females plays a key role in the vectorial capacity of mosquito populations. Previous olfactometry assays of responsiveness demonstrated that Senna didymobotrya Fresenius, Parthenium hysterophorus, L. Senna occidentalis, (L) and Lantana camara L were among the most attractive plants for the Mbita strain of Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles in eastern Africa. Here, we provide experimental evidence that three of these four species also provide varying but substantial amounts of sugar for mosquito survival, whereas a fourth does not. Rank order of survival of both sexes of mosquitoes housed with these plants was as follows: S. didymobotrya was highest, followed by S. occidentalis and L. camara, whereas survival on P. hysterophorus was only slightly better than on only water. A positive control group, housed with 10% sucrose, survived well but fell significantly short of those with S. didymobotrya. A causal connection between survival and sugar availability was established by exposing mosquitoes to plants overnight, and then testing them for the presence and amount of undigested fructose. Fructose positivity was most frequent in those exposed to L. camara, whereas greatest amounts of fructose were obtained from S. occidentalis and S. didymobotrya. Parthenium hysterophorus scored lowest in both categories. We conclude that attractiveness and sugar availability are often, but not always, concordant. It remains unclear why P. hysterophorus should be attractive if it offers little sugar and does not prolong survival. Furthermore, the cause behind the superior survival benefit of S. didymobotrya, compared with 10% sucrose, is unknown."
97	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Ebrahimi_2018_11	2018	"B. Ebrahimi, B. T. Jackson, J. L. Guseman, C. M. Przybylowicz, C. M. Stone and W. A. Foster"	Alteration of plant species assemblages can decrease the transmission potential of malaria mosquitoes	Journal of Applied Ecology	55 (2)	841-851	10.1111/1365-2664.13001	"Knowledge of the link between a vector population's pathogen-transmission potential and its biotic environment can generate more realistic forecasts of disease risk due to environmental change. It also can promote more effective vector control by both conventional and novel means. This study assessed the effect of particular plant species assemblages differing in nectar production on components of the vectorial capacity of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s., an important vector of African malaria. We followed cohorts of mosquitoes for 3 weeks in greenhouse mesocosms holding nectar-poor and nectar-rich plant species by tracking daily mortalities and estimating daily biting rates and fecundities. At death, a mosquito's insemination status and wing length were determined. These life-history traits allowed incorporation of larval dynamics into a vectorial capacity estimate. This new study provided both novel assemblages of putative host plants and a human blood host within a nocturnal period of maximum biting. Survivorship was significantly greater in nectar-rich environments than nectar-poor ones, resulting in greater total fecundity. Daily biting rate and fecundity per female between treatments was not detected. These results translated to greater estimated vectorial capacities in the nectar-rich environment in all four replicates of the experiment (means: 1,089.5 ± 125.2 vs. 518.3 ± 60.6). When mosquito density was made a function of survival and fecundity, rather than held constant, the difference between plant treatments was more pronounced, but so was the variance, so differences were not statistically significant. In the nectar-poor environment, females' survival suffered severely when a blood host was not provided. A sugar-accessibility experiment confirmed that Parthenium hysterophorus is a nectar-poor plant for these mosquitoes. Synthesis and applications. This study, assessing the effect of particular plant species assemblages on the vectorial capacity of malaria mosquitoes, highlights the likelihood that changes in plant communities (e.g. due to introduction of exotic or nectar-rich species) can increase malaria transmission and that a reduction of favourable nectar sources can reduce it. Also, plant communities' data can be used to identify potential high risk areas. Further studies are warranted to explore how and when management of plant species assemblages should be considered as an option in an integrated vector management strategy."
98	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
99	Parthenium hysterophorus	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Semifield	Zappia_2018_161	2018	"S. P. W. Zappia, A. M. Chubaty and B. D. Roitberg"	State-dependent domicile leaving rates in Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal			10.1186/s12936-017-2166-4	"Background: Transmission of Plasmodium greatly depends on the foraging behaviour of its mosquito vector (Anopheles spp.). The accessibility of blood hosts and availability of plant sugar (i.e., nectar) sources, together with mosquito energy state, have been shown to modulate blood feeding (and thus biting rates) of anopheline mosquitoes. In this study, the influence of mosquito starvation status and availability of nectar on the decision of female Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes to leave a bed net-protected blood host was examined. Methods: Two small-scale mesocosm experiments were conducted using female mosquitoes starved for 0, 24 or 48 h, that were released inside a specially constructed hut with mesh-sealed exits and containing a bed net-protected human volunteer. Floral cues were positioned on one side of the hut or the other. Several biologically plausible exponential decay models were developed that characterized the emigration rates of mosquitoes from the huts. These varied from simple random loss to leaving rates dependent upon energy state and time. These model fits were evaluated by examining their fitted parameter estimates and comparing Akaike information criterion. Results: Starved mosquitoes left domiciles at a higher rate than recently fed individuals however, there was no difference between 1- and 2-day-starved mosquitoes. There was also no effect of floral cue placement. The best fitting emigration model was one based on both mosquito energy state and time whereas the worst fitting model was one based on the assumption of constant leaving rates, independent of time and energy state. Conclusions: The results confirm that mosquito-leaving behaviour is energy-state dependent, and provide some of the first evidence of state-dependent domicile emigration in An. gambiae, which may play a role in malarial transmission dynamics. Employment of simple, first-principle, mechanistic models can be very useful to our understanding of why and how mosquitoes leave domiciles."
100	Parthenium hysterophorus 	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Manda_2007_42	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, E. Nyandat, E. W. Kabiru, R. R. Jackson, W. A. Foster, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier and A. Hassanali"	Discriminative feeding behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.s. on endemic plants in western Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	21 (1)	103-111	10.1111/j.1365-2915.2007.00672.x	"Anopheles gambiae Giles s.s. (Diptera: Culicidae) is known to feed on plant sugars, but this is the first experimental study to consider whether it discriminates between plant species. Thirteen perennial plant species were selected on the basis of their local availability within the vicinity of human dwellings and larval habitats of An. gambiae s.s. in western Kenya. Groups of 100 or 200 mosquitoes were released into cages either with a cutting of one plant type at a time (single-plant assay) or with cuttings of all 13 plants simultaneously (choice assay), respectively, and left overnight. In the choice assay, direct observations of the percentages of mosquitoes perching or feeding on each plant were recorded over four 1-h periods each night. For both types of assay, mosquitoes were recaptured and the percentage that had fed on plants was assessed by testing them individually for the presence of fructose. To identify which plants the choice-assay mosquitoes had fed on, gas chromatography (GC) profiles of samples of mosquito homogenates were compared with GC profiles of extracts from relevant parts of each plant. Four of the plants that were observed to have been fed on most frequently in the choice assay (Parthenium hysterophorus L., Tecoma stans L., Ricinus communis L., and Senna didymobotrya Fresen) were also shown to have been ingested most often by mosquitoes in both types of assay, suggesting that An. gambiae is differentially responsive to this range of plants, regardless of whether the plants were presented singly or mixed together. Significantly more females than males fed on plants, with the exception of P. hysterophorus L., one of the plants most frequently fed on. For most plant species (ten of 13), GC profiles indicated that An. gambiae obtained sugars primarily from flowers. The exceptions were P. hysterophorus L., Lantana camara L. and R. communis L., on which An. gambiae fed more often from leaves and stems than from flowers."
101	Parthenium hysterophorus 	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
102	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex tarsalis	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
103	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
104	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
105	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
106	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes punctor	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
107	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
108	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
109	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Vargo_1984_74	1984	A. M. Vargo and W. A. Foster	Gonotrophic state and parity of nectar-feeding mosquitos 	Mosquito News	44 (1)	06-Oct		"The dissection of 444 females of Aedes vexans (Mg.) and Culex restuans Theo. collected while they were feeding on nectar at flowers in Ohio in September and October 1979 indicated that both species seldom (3-4%) took nectar while digesting a blood-meal. In C. restuans, 49% of the females were gravid and 48% empty, but in A. vexans 18% were gravid and 79% empty. Parous nectar feeders were common among both species. A comparison of the parous/nulliparous ratio of nectar-feeding and blood-seeking samples of A. vexans indicated that nectar feeding was most frequent among nulliparous females but continued throughout adult life."
110	Solidago sempervirens	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
111	Solidago sempervirens	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
112	Solidago sempervirens	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
113	Solidago sempervirens	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1979_43	1979	L. A. Magnarelli	Diurnal Nectar-Feeding of Aedes cantator and A. sollicitans (Diptera: Culicidae) 1	Environmental Entomology	8 (5)	949-955	10.1093/ee/8.5.949	"A 50-m 2 salt marsh study plot was used from 0800 to 2000 h to observe diurnal associations of Aedes cantator (Coquillett) and Aedes sollicitans (Walker) with Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L. (ox-eye daisy), Achillea millefolium L. (yarrow), and Hieracium pratense Tausch (king-devil hawkweed) and to determine periods of most active biting intensity on humans. Both sexes of each species were more frequently collected from flowers of plants in peak bloom and at high relative densities. Diurnal shifts in the selection of host plants were not apparent. Of the total 1711 mosquitoes captured from blooming plants, significantly more individuals (66%) were observed probing floral and non-floral structures between 1600 and 2000 h. Periods of peak association with nectar sources and times of maximum blood-seeking activity were synchronous for each species. Anthrone tests detected fructose and sucrose in resting and blood-seeking mosquitoes throughout diurnal hours, but in each behavioral group, significantly more A. cantator and A. sollicitans females (65–89%) contained these sugars at 2000–2100 h. Percentages of nectar-positive males (≥55%)consistently exceeded those of females for both species between 0800 and 1700 h; no differences could be found between sexes during 1700–2100 h. Relatively high frequencies of nectar-positive males and females suggest repeated daily associations of these salt marsh mosquitoes with sugar sources."
114	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
115	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex salinarius	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
116	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culex territans	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
117	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles walkeri	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
118	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles earlei	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
119	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
120	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
121	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
122	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
123	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes triseriatus	Aedes triseriatus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
124	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Peach_2016_114	2016	D. A. H. Peach and G. Gries	Nectar thieves or invited pollinators? A case study of tansy flowers and common house mosquitoes	Arthropod-Plant Interactions	10 (6)	497-506	10.1007/s11829-016-9445-9	"Mosquitoes are generally considered nectar thieves that do not contribute to the pollination of the flowers they visit. Here we tested the hypothesis that the common house mosquito, Culex pipiens, contributes to the pollination of tansies, Tanacetum vulgare, and possibly the pollination of other members of the Asteraceae (Achillea millefolium, Leucanthemum vulgare, Solidago canadensis). To test this hypothesis, we (1) field-collected mosquitoes probing inflorescences of T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and L. vulgare, and recorded the number and distribution of pollen grains on their bodies, (2) exposed laboratory-reared Cx. pipiens to inflorescences of T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and S. canadensis, and (3) ran pollination experiments with Cx. pipiens and T. vulgare in a greenhouse. We found (1) that 41 of 164 field-collected Cx. pipiens carried pollen, (2) that 48, 34, and 34% of Cx. pipiens accumulated pollen from T. vulgare, A. millefolium, and S. canadensis, respectively, during floral visits of greenhouse-grown specimens, and (3) that cross-pollination by Cx. pipiens resulted in significant seed set of T. vulgare in pollination experiments. Based on our observations that Cx. pipiens are frequent floral visitors and are able to carry pollen and to induce seed set in T. vulgare, it is clear that Cx. pipiens plays a role in the pollination of T. vulgare, and possibly other members of the Asteraceae."
125	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae	Yes	Anopheles messeae 	Other Anopheles species	Sweden	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Thomas_1991_149	1991	"G. Thomas, T. G. T. Jaenson, B. Ameneshewa, G. Thomas, T. G. T. Jaenson and B. Ameneshewa"	Prehibernation diet and reproductive condition of female Anopheles messeae in Sweden	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	5 (2)	243-252	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1991.tb00547.x	"Blood and sugar feeding in the mosquito Anopheles messeae Falleroni were investigated near Uppsala, Sweden, from 1981 to 1985, with emphasis on prehibernation diet. Fructose, indicating plant feeding, was present in females of all ovarian stages, from April to October, and contributed to fat body development in non_gonoactive females before hibernation. An.messeae males and females (inseminated and uninseminated) were observed feeding on floral nectaries of the plants Achillea millefolium L. and Tanacetum vulgare L. at night during August. Gonotrophic dissociation started in some females in July, and by the end of September all females were inseminated and nulliparous but non_gonoactive. Animal sheds were used as diurnal resting sites of non_gonoactive, prehibernating female An. messeae. Among recently fed mosquitoes in that group, 85% were gut positive for fructose and 15% for blood. Most of them showed negative host tropism, indicating that bloodfeeding is not a prerequisite for hibernation. Survival rates of bloodfed (48 ± 31 days) and non_bloodfed (42 ± 21 days) females, collected from a cattle shed in September and kept caged without food or water in a store house, were not significantly different. This indicates that bloodfeeding may occur facultatively before hibernation but does not affect longevity and survival. If overwintering is possible for bloodfed An.messeae females, they would be more likely vectors of pathogens such as Batai virus."
126	Taraxacum officinale	Asteraceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
127	Taraxacum officinale	Asteraceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
128	Tithonia diversifolia 	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
129	Tithonia diversifolia   	Asteraceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Semifield	Jackson_2015_4	2015	"B. T. Jackson, C. M. Stone, B. Ebrahimi, O. J. T. Briët and W. A. Foster"	A low-cost mesocosm for the study of behaviour and reproductive potential in Afrotropical mosquito (Diptera: Culicidae) vectors of malaria	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	29 (1)	104-109	10.1111/mve.12085	"A large-scale mesocosm was constructed and tested for its effectiveness for use in experiments on behaviour, reproduction and adult survivorship in the Afrotropical malaria vector Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) in temperate climates. The large space (82.69 m(3) ) allowed for semi-natural experiments that increased demand on a mosquito's energetic reserves in an environment of widely distributed resources. A one-piece prefabricated enclosure, made with white netting and vinyl, prevented the ingress of predators and the egress of mosquitoes. Daylight and white materials prompted the mosquitoes to seclude themselves in restricted daytime resting sites and allowed the easy collection of dead bodies so that daily mortality could be assessed accurately using a method that accounts for the loss of a proportion of bodies. Here, daily, age-dependent mortality rates of males and females were estimated using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation. In overnight experiments, mosquitoes successfully located plants and took sugar meals. A 3-week survival trial with a single cohort demonstrated successful mating, blood feeding, oviposition and long life. The relatively low cost of the mesocosm and the performance of the mosquitoes in it make it a viable option for any behavioural or ecological study of tropical mosquitoes in which space and seasonal cold are constraining factors."
130	Solidago canadensis	Asteraceae	Yes	Culiseta inornata	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
131	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culiseta silvestris minnesotae	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
132	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culiseta silvestris minnesotae	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
133	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culiseta inornata	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
134	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Culiseta morsitans	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
135	Aster divaricatus 	Asteraceae	Yes	Psorophora ferox 	Other species of mosquitoes	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1980_32	1980	L. A. Magnarelli	Bionomics of Psorophora Ferox (Diptera: Culicidae): Seasonal Occurrence and Acquisition of Sugars	Journal of Medical Entomology	17 (4)	328-332	10.1093/jmedent/17.4.328	"Despite erratic annual and seasonal distribution of Psorophora ferox (Humb.), a persistent man-biting mosquito, in a woodland habitat in Connecticut, males and females consistently contained fructose or sucrose throughout the daylight hours. Nectar sugars were detected in 38% of the 1000 females and in 48% of the 497 males caught between 09.00 h and 21.00 h in August 1976, and the proportions of nectar-positive resting females (82%) and blood-seeking females (71%) were both greatest between 17.01 and 19.00 h. Males usually contained more nectar than females throughout the day. The main observed sources of nectar during twilight hours (19.01-21.00 h) were Aster divaricatus and A. lowrieanus, but a comparatively small number of male or female mosquitoes were seen on the flowers. Chemical test results suggested there was a much higher frequency of feeding on sugars than was indicated by visual sightings on flowers."
136	Aster lowrieanus	Asteraceae	Yes	Psorophora ferox 	Other species of mosquitoes	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1980_32	1980	L. A. Magnarelli	Bionomics of Psorophora Ferox (Diptera: Culicidae): Seasonal Occurrence and Acquisition of Sugars	Journal of Medical Entomology	17 (4)	328-332	10.1093/jmedent/17.4.328	"Despite erratic annual and seasonal distribution of Psorophora ferox (Humb.), a persistent man-biting mosquito, in a woodland habitat in Connecticut, males and females consistently contained fructose or sucrose throughout the daylight hours. Nectar sugars were detected in 38% of the 1000 females and in 48% of the 497 males caught between 09.00 h and 21.00 h in August 1976, and the proportions of nectar-positive resting females (82%) and blood-seeking females (71%) were both greatest between 17.01 and 19.00 h. Males usually contained more nectar than females throughout the day. The main observed sources of nectar during twilight hours (19.01-21.00 h) were Aster divaricatus and A. lowrieanus, but a comparatively small number of male or female mosquitoes were seen on the flowers. Chemical test results suggested there was a much higher frequency of feeding on sugars than was indicated by visual sightings on flowers."
137	Centratherum punctatum	Asteraceae 	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles arabiensis	Reunion islands	"Identification, Effect"	"Present, Previously studied"	Lab	Gouagna_2014_170	2014	"L. C. Gouagna, R. Kerampran, C. Lebon, C. Brengues, C. Toty, D. A. Wilkinson, S. Boyer and D. Fontenille"	"Sugar-source preference, sugar intake and relative nutritional benefits in Anopheles arabiensis males"	Acta Tropica	132	S70-S79	10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.022	"Plant-derived sugar is the only source of dietary carbohydrate for males of most mosquito species. Male resource acquisition and utilization remain an under-researched area of behavior in vectors of human diseases. However, the renewed interest in the use of sterile males against disease vector mosquitoes reinforces the urgent need for studies on the behavioral and ecological processes that underpin male fitness and reproductive success. Here an attempt was made first to characterize the conditions and modes of resource acquisition (plant derived sugar meals) early in the life of An. arabiensis males, and second to test the hypothesis that the plants chosen for their sugar meals are those which maximize their fitness in terms of energy gains (i.e. amount of lipids, proteins, glycogen and glucose). Olfactometry assays demonstrated the ability of An. arabiensis males to discriminate among a sample of ten abundant flowering plants present in their natural habitats. In further experiments, we observed significant variations in the sugar intake rates that matched their olfactory preferences, with the most attractive plants eliciting significantly higher sugar intake rates. Consistent with our expectations, analyses of the whole-body free sugars, lipids and glycogen unequivocally showed that the energy reserve accumulated post-feeding is dependent on the diet of the adult males, with the preferred plants providing more energy reserves than the less preferred ones, despite mosquitoes actively feeding on both. Taken together, these results show that An. Arabiensis males are able to discern between food sources, preferentially feeding on those species of plant that provide the highest metabolic payoff. Ensuring or somehow heightening the ability to detect and obtain rewarding sugar meals by male mosquitoes reared for field release could enhance their competitive ability in the field. "
138	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
139	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Culex torrentium	Other Culex species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
140	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Anopheles claviger	Other Anopheles species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
141	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Anopheles punctor	Other Anopheles species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
142	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Anopheles maculipennis	Other Anopheles species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
143	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Aedes cantans	Other Aedes species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
144	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Aedes caspius	Other Aedes species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
145	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
146	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Aedes detritus	Other Aedes species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
147	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Aedes dorsalis	Other Aedes species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
148	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Culiseta annulata	Culiseta species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
149	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Culiseta berghroti	Culiseta species	Sweden	Identification	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
150	Impatiens walleriana	Balsaminaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
151	Impatiens walleriana	Balsaminaceae	Yes 	Culex quinquefasciatus	Other Culex species	US	Identification	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield 	Pruett_2020_195	2020	"G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena, C. Kearney, G. Pruetta, J. Hawesa, W. Varnadob, H. Deermanb, J. Goddardc, N. Burkett-Cadenad, C. Kearneya, G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena and C. Kearney"	The readily transformable Impatiens walleriana efficiently attracts nectar feeding with Aedes and Culex mosquitoes in simulated outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida	Acta Tropica	1873-6254 		10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105624	"Mosquitoes rely upon plant nectars for their energy needs, a trait that has the potential to allow nectar to serve as a platform for producing and delivering toxins to nuisance and/or vector mosquito species. Impatiens walleriana (Order: Ericales, Family: Balsaminaceae) is a readily transformable and widely planted nectar plant that has been previously shown to attract mosquito nectar-feeding. However, those feeding studies were only conducted indoors and did not test if variable environmental conditions will affect nectar feeding. In this study, we tested incidence of nectar feeding from the extrafloral nectaries of I. walleriana with the mosquitoes Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus (Order: Diptera, Family: Culicidae) in simulated, outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida. I. walleriana and other common garden plants (in a 1:4 ratio) were placed into a mesh-lined 4'x7' mesocosm along with 50 mosquitoes. To track nectar feeding, the nectar of I. walleriana was tagged with red dye and mosquitoes were analyzed for red dye fluorescence after feeding. Fluorescence analysis demonstrated that 81.9% of male and 86.6% of female mosquitoes fed on the nectar of I. walleriana within 24 h. This suggests that mosquitoes may readily feed on impatiens nectar in outdoor garden settings at temperate and semi-tropical sites, even when alternate common garden plants are available. This attraction capacity is essential for the further consideration of I. walleriana for development as a transgenic, mosquitocidal nectar plant."
152	Impatiens walleriana	Balsaminaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
153	Impatiens walleriana	Balsaminaceae	Yes 	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US	Identification	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield 	Pruett_2020_195	2020	"G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena, C. Kearney, G. Pruetta, J. Hawesa, W. Varnadob, H. Deermanb, J. Goddardc, N. Burkett-Cadenad, C. Kearneya, G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena and C. Kearney"	The readily transformable Impatiens walleriana efficiently attracts nectar feeding with Aedes and Culex mosquitoes in simulated outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida	Acta Tropica	1873-6254 		10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105624	"Mosquitoes rely upon plant nectars for their energy needs, a trait that has the potential to allow nectar to serve as a platform for producing and delivering toxins to nuisance and/or vector mosquito species. Impatiens walleriana (Order: Ericales, Family: Balsaminaceae) is a readily transformable and widely planted nectar plant that has been previously shown to attract mosquito nectar-feeding. However, those feeding studies were only conducted indoors and did not test if variable environmental conditions will affect nectar feeding. In this study, we tested incidence of nectar feeding from the extrafloral nectaries of I. walleriana with the mosquitoes Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus (Order: Diptera, Family: Culicidae) in simulated, outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida. I. walleriana and other common garden plants (in a 1:4 ratio) were placed into a mesh-lined 4'x7' mesocosm along with 50 mosquitoes. To track nectar feeding, the nectar of I. walleriana was tagged with red dye and mosquitoes were analyzed for red dye fluorescence after feeding. Fluorescence analysis demonstrated that 81.9% of male and 86.6% of female mosquitoes fed on the nectar of I. walleriana within 24 h. This suggests that mosquitoes may readily feed on impatiens nectar in outdoor garden settings at temperate and semi-tropical sites, even when alternate common garden plants are available. This attraction capacity is essential for the further consideration of I. walleriana for development as a transgenic, mosquitocidal nectar plant."
154	Impatiens walleriana	Balsaminaceae	Yes 	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	US	Identification	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield 	Pruett_2020_195	2020	"G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena, C. Kearney, G. Pruetta, J. Hawesa, W. Varnadob, H. Deermanb, J. Goddardc, N. Burkett-Cadenad, C. Kearneya, G. Pruett, J. Hawes, W. Varnado, H. Deerman, J. Goddard, N. Burkett-Cadena and C. Kearney"	The readily transformable Impatiens walleriana efficiently attracts nectar feeding with Aedes and Culex mosquitoes in simulated outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida	Acta Tropica	1873-6254 		10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105624	"Mosquitoes rely upon plant nectars for their energy needs, a trait that has the potential to allow nectar to serve as a platform for producing and delivering toxins to nuisance and/or vector mosquito species. Impatiens walleriana (Order: Ericales, Family: Balsaminaceae) is a readily transformable and widely planted nectar plant that has been previously shown to attract mosquito nectar-feeding. However, those feeding studies were only conducted indoors and did not test if variable environmental conditions will affect nectar feeding. In this study, we tested incidence of nectar feeding from the extrafloral nectaries of I. walleriana with the mosquitoes Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus (Order: Diptera, Family: Culicidae) in simulated, outdoor garden settings in Mississippi and Florida. I. walleriana and other common garden plants (in a 1:4 ratio) were placed into a mesh-lined 4'x7' mesocosm along with 50 mosquitoes. To track nectar feeding, the nectar of I. walleriana was tagged with red dye and mosquitoes were analyzed for red dye fluorescence after feeding. Fluorescence analysis demonstrated that 81.9% of male and 86.6% of female mosquitoes fed on the nectar of I. walleriana within 24 h. This suggests that mosquitoes may readily feed on impatiens nectar in outdoor garden settings at temperate and semi-tropical sites, even when alternate common garden plants are available. This attraction capacity is essential for the further consideration of I. walleriana for development as a transgenic, mosquitocidal nectar plant."
155	Campsis radicans	Bignoniaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
156	Campsis radicans	Bignoniaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
157	Catalpa bignonoides	Bignoniaceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
158	Tecoma stans	Bignoniaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Manda_2007_42	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, E. Nyandat, E. W. Kabiru, R. R. Jackson, W. A. Foster, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier and A. Hassanali"	Discriminative feeding behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.s. on endemic plants in western Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	21 (1)	103-111	10.1111/j.1365-2915.2007.00672.x	"Anopheles gambiae Giles s.s. (Diptera: Culicidae) is known to feed on plant sugars, but this is the first experimental study to consider whether it discriminates between plant species. Thirteen perennial plant species were selected on the basis of their local availability within the vicinity of human dwellings and larval habitats of An. gambiae s.s. in western Kenya. Groups of 100 or 200 mosquitoes were released into cages either with a cutting of one plant type at a time (single-plant assay) or with cuttings of all 13 plants simultaneously (choice assay), respectively, and left overnight. In the choice assay, direct observations of the percentages of mosquitoes perching or feeding on each plant were recorded over four 1-h periods each night. For both types of assay, mosquitoes were recaptured and the percentage that had fed on plants was assessed by testing them individually for the presence of fructose. To identify which plants the choice-assay mosquitoes had fed on, gas chromatography (GC) profiles of samples of mosquito homogenates were compared with GC profiles of extracts from relevant parts of each plant. Four of the plants that were observed to have been fed on most frequently in the choice assay (Parthenium hysterophorus L., Tecoma stans L., Ricinus communis L., and Senna didymobotrya Fresen) were also shown to have been ingested most often by mosquitoes in both types of assay, suggesting that An. gambiae is differentially responsive to this range of plants, regardless of whether the plants were presented singly or mixed together. Significantly more females than males fed on plants, with the exception of P. hysterophorus L., one of the plants most frequently fed on. For most plant species (ten of 13), GC profiles indicated that An. gambiae obtained sugars primarily from flowers. The exceptions were P. hysterophorus L., Lantana camara L. and R. communis L., on which An. gambiae fed more often from leaves and stems than from flowers."
159	Tecoma stans	Bignoniaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Manda_2007_220	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, W. A. Foster, R. R. Jackson, J. C. Beier, J. I. Githure and A. Hassanali"	Effect of discriminative plant-sugar feeding on the survival and fecundity of Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	6 (1)	113	10.1186/1475-2875-6-113	A previous study showed for Anopheles gambiae s.s. a gradation of feeding preference on common plant species growing in a malaria holoendemic area in western Kenya. The present follow-up study determines whether there is a relationship between the mosquito's preferences and its survival and fecundity.
160	Tecoma stans 	Bignoniaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
161	Myosotis arvensis	Boraginaceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification 	Present	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
162	Brassica rapa	Brassicaceae 	High	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
163	Brassica rapa	Brassicaceae 	High	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
164	Opuntia ficus-indica	Cactaceae	Yes	Aedes mcintoshi	Other Aedes species	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
165	Opuntia ficus-indica	Cactaceae	Yes	Aedes ochraceus	Other Aedes species	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
166	Opuntia ficus-indica	Cactaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nyasembe_2021_247	2021	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, M. N. Muturi, M. P. Njeri, Pirk, C. W. W., C. L. Sole, B. Torto"	Plant nutrient quality impacts survival and reproductive fitness of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti	Parasites & Vectors	14 (1)	4	10.1186/s13071-020-04519-y	"In a recent study using DNA barcoding, we identified the plants fed upon by four Afro-tropical mosquito species that vector dengue, malaria, and Rift Valley fever. Herein, we have expanded on this study by investigating the role of three of the plants, Pithecellobium dulce (Fabaceae), Leonotis nepetifolia (Lamiaceae), and Opuntia ficus-indica (Cactaceae), on the survival, fecundity, and egg viability of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti."
167	Boscia angustifolia 	Capparaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
168	Abelia chinensis	Caprifoliaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab	Yu_2018_62	2018	"B. T. Yu, Y. Hu, Y. M. Ding, J. X. Tian and J. C. Mo"	Feeding on different attractive flowering plants affects the energy reserves of Culex pipiens pallens adults	Parasitology Research	117 (1)	67-73	10.1007/s00436-017-5664-y	"Mosquito adults usually need to ingest sugar from nectar host plants to sustain their metabolic needs. Mosquitoes could be differentially attracted by various flowering plant species, and the volatiles were thought to be important factors attributed to the differential attractiveness. However, whether mosquitoes' preference for host plants correlates with their nutritional rewards from sugar sources remains unclear. In the present study, the preference of newly emerged Culex pipiens pallens to three kinds of flowering plants (Ligustrum quihoui, Abelia chinensis, and Nerium indicum) was determined in the olfactometer. Besides, when the newly emerged mosquitoes were provided with these flowering plants as sugar sources, the content of their metabolic reserves (glycogen, lipid, and protein) was determined. The results revealed that Cx. pipiens pallens could be differentially attracted by the odors emitted by the inflorescences of the tested flowering plants, and the nutritional rewards of mosquitoes were significantly affected by feeding on different inflorescences. The present study demonstrated that feeding on nectar host plants with differential attraction could affect the energy reserves of Cx. pipiens pallens."
169	Abelia chinensis 	Caprifoliaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Yu_2016_172	2016	"B. T. Yu, Y. M. Ding, X. C. Mo, N. Liu, H. J. Li and J. C. Mo"	Survivorship and fecundity of Culex pipiens pallens feeding on flowering plants and seed pods with differential preferences	Acta Tropica	155	51-57	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.12.015	"Adult mosquitoes rely on ingestion of sugar from plants to survive, swarm and mate. Culex pipiens pallens Coguillett is the primary vector of lymphatic filariasis and epidemic encephalitis. Little is known about the effect of feeding on different sugar sources on the survivorship and fecundity of Cx. pipiens pallens. In the present study, newly emerged mosquitoes were exposed to several flowering plant and seed pod species with different olfactory preferences, and the survival times of mosquitoes exposed to these sugar sources were determined. The proportions of mosquitoes that ingested sugar from host plants were investigated by cold anthrone tests. The numbers of eggs per egg raft laid by mosquitoes were compared when they were provided with different sugar sources and one blood meal. The results revealed that feeding on different kinds of sugar sources significantly affected female and male mosquitoes’ survival times. Cold anthrone tests indicated that the proportions of sugar-positive mosquitoes from different nutritional regimes within 24h corresponded to the preference rankings of Cx. pipiens pallens to these sugar sources, and rapid declines in the proportions of surviving individuals might be attributed to their insufficient ingestion of sugar from nutritional regimes. Feeding on different sugar sources strongly affected the proportions of engorged mosquitoes, and females that had fed on their preferred sugar sources laid more eggs than mosquitoes provided with less preferred sugar sources. The results would provide insights in developing mosquito control strategies that target the sugar feeding behavior of mosquitoes."
170	Silene latifolia subsp. alba	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
171	Silene otites	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Culex torrentium 	Other Culex species	Germany	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Dotterl_2012_177	2012	"S. Dotterl, K. Jahreiss, U. S. Jhumur, A. Jurgens, S. Dötterl, K. Jahreiß, U. S. Jhumur and A. Jürgens"	Temporal variation of flower scent in Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae): a species with a mixed pollination system	Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society	169 (3)	447-460	10.1111/j.1095-8339.2012.01239.x	"Floral scent composition and emission are often related to olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of pollinating agents. However, most studies have focused on species with one pollinator type, and little is known about species with mixed pollination systems. We investigated the temporal variation in flower visitor activity and flower scent emission of Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae), a species regarded as being nocturnal and pollinated by moths and mosquitoes. We found, however, that S. otites is not only visited at night by moths and mosquitoes, but also by a wide range of day-active insects. Furthermore, both the intensity and composition of floral scent change during the course of the day. Total scent emission reached its maximum in the early hours of the night when compounds known to be attractants for moths and/or mosquitoes, such as lilac aldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and 2-phenylethanol, dominated the scent. However, although less intensive, emission continued during the day. In the early morning, a-pinene, hotrienol, 2-phenylethanol and d-3-carene were the dominant scent compounds. (E)-beta-Ocimene, hotrienol and benzyl alcohol contributed proportions of at least 10% before midday when flies, such as syrphids, were abundant flower visitors, whereas linalool and hotrienol contributed to the scent with at least 10% each in the afternoon when bees also contributed to flower visits. We conclude that, in S. otites, the changing emission patterns are in tune with the olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of its day- and night-active potentially pollinating flower visitors. "
172	Silene otites	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Culex pipiens 	Culex pipiens 	Germany	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Dotterl_2012_177	2012	"S. Dotterl, K. Jahreiss, U. S. Jhumur, A. Jurgens, S. Dötterl, K. Jahreiß, U. S. Jhumur and A. Jürgens"	Temporal variation of flower scent in Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae): a species with a mixed pollination system	Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society	169 (3)	447-460	10.1111/j.1095-8339.2012.01239.x	"Floral scent composition and emission are often related to olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of pollinating agents. However, most studies have focused on species with one pollinator type, and little is known about species with mixed pollination systems. We investigated the temporal variation in flower visitor activity and flower scent emission of Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae), a species regarded as being nocturnal and pollinated by moths and mosquitoes. We found, however, that S. otites is not only visited at night by moths and mosquitoes, but also by a wide range of day-active insects. Furthermore, both the intensity and composition of floral scent change during the course of the day. Total scent emission reached its maximum in the early hours of the night when compounds known to be attractants for moths and/or mosquitoes, such as lilac aldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and 2-phenylethanol, dominated the scent. However, although less intensive, emission continued during the day. In the early morning, a-pinene, hotrienol, 2-phenylethanol and d-3-carene were the dominant scent compounds. (E)-beta-Ocimene, hotrienol and benzyl alcohol contributed proportions of at least 10% before midday when flies, such as syrphids, were abundant flower visitors, whereas linalool and hotrienol contributed to the scent with at least 10% each in the afternoon when bees also contributed to flower visits. We conclude that, in S. otites, the changing emission patterns are in tune with the olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of its day- and night-active potentially pollinating flower visitors. "
173	Silene otites	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Anopheles claviger	Other Anopheles species	Germany	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Dotterl_2012_177	2012	"S. Dotterl, K. Jahreiss, U. S. Jhumur, A. Jurgens, S. Dötterl, K. Jahreiß, U. S. Jhumur and A. Jürgens"	Temporal variation of flower scent in Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae): a species with a mixed pollination system	Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society	169 (3)	447-460	10.1111/j.1095-8339.2012.01239.x	"Floral scent composition and emission are often related to olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of pollinating agents. However, most studies have focused on species with one pollinator type, and little is known about species with mixed pollination systems. We investigated the temporal variation in flower visitor activity and flower scent emission of Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae), a species regarded as being nocturnal and pollinated by moths and mosquitoes. We found, however, that S. otites is not only visited at night by moths and mosquitoes, but also by a wide range of day-active insects. Furthermore, both the intensity and composition of floral scent change during the course of the day. Total scent emission reached its maximum in the early hours of the night when compounds known to be attractants for moths and/or mosquitoes, such as lilac aldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and 2-phenylethanol, dominated the scent. However, although less intensive, emission continued during the day. In the early morning, a-pinene, hotrienol, 2-phenylethanol and d-3-carene were the dominant scent compounds. (E)-beta-Ocimene, hotrienol and benzyl alcohol contributed proportions of at least 10% before midday when flies, such as syrphids, were abundant flower visitors, whereas linalool and hotrienol contributed to the scent with at least 10% each in the afternoon when bees also contributed to flower visits. We conclude that, in S. otites, the changing emission patterns are in tune with the olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of its day- and night-active potentially pollinating flower visitors. "
174	Silene otites	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Aedes cantans 	Other Aedes species	Germany	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Dotterl_2012_177	2012	"S. Dotterl, K. Jahreiss, U. S. Jhumur, A. Jurgens, S. Dötterl, K. Jahreiß, U. S. Jhumur and A. Jürgens"	Temporal variation of flower scent in Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae): a species with a mixed pollination system	Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society	169 (3)	447-460	10.1111/j.1095-8339.2012.01239.x	"Floral scent composition and emission are often related to olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of pollinating agents. However, most studies have focused on species with one pollinator type, and little is known about species with mixed pollination systems. We investigated the temporal variation in flower visitor activity and flower scent emission of Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae), a species regarded as being nocturnal and pollinated by moths and mosquitoes. We found, however, that S. otites is not only visited at night by moths and mosquitoes, but also by a wide range of day-active insects. Furthermore, both the intensity and composition of floral scent change during the course of the day. Total scent emission reached its maximum in the early hours of the night when compounds known to be attractants for moths and/or mosquitoes, such as lilac aldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and 2-phenylethanol, dominated the scent. However, although less intensive, emission continued during the day. In the early morning, a-pinene, hotrienol, 2-phenylethanol and d-3-carene were the dominant scent compounds. (E)-beta-Ocimene, hotrienol and benzyl alcohol contributed proportions of at least 10% before midday when flies, such as syrphids, were abundant flower visitors, whereas linalool and hotrienol contributed to the scent with at least 10% each in the afternoon when bees also contributed to flower visits. We conclude that, in S. otites, the changing emission patterns are in tune with the olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of its day- and night-active potentially pollinating flower visitors. "
175	Silene otites	Caryophyllaceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans 	Aedes vexans 	Germany	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Dotterl_2012_177	2012	"S. Dotterl, K. Jahreiss, U. S. Jhumur, A. Jurgens, S. Dötterl, K. Jahreiß, U. S. Jhumur and A. Jürgens"	Temporal variation of flower scent in Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae): a species with a mixed pollination system	Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society	169 (3)	447-460	10.1111/j.1095-8339.2012.01239.x	"Floral scent composition and emission are often related to olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of pollinating agents. However, most studies have focused on species with one pollinator type, and little is known about species with mixed pollination systems. We investigated the temporal variation in flower visitor activity and flower scent emission of Silene otites (Caryophyllaceae), a species regarded as being nocturnal and pollinated by moths and mosquitoes. We found, however, that S. otites is not only visited at night by moths and mosquitoes, but also by a wide range of day-active insects. Furthermore, both the intensity and composition of floral scent change during the course of the day. Total scent emission reached its maximum in the early hours of the night when compounds known to be attractants for moths and/or mosquitoes, such as lilac aldehyde, benzaldehyde, phenylacetaldehyde and 2-phenylethanol, dominated the scent. However, although less intensive, emission continued during the day. In the early morning, a-pinene, hotrienol, 2-phenylethanol and d-3-carene were the dominant scent compounds. (E)-beta-Ocimene, hotrienol and benzyl alcohol contributed proportions of at least 10% before midday when flies, such as syrphids, were abundant flower visitors, whereas linalool and hotrienol contributed to the scent with at least 10% each in the afternoon when bees also contributed to flower visits. We conclude that, in S. otites, the changing emission patterns are in tune with the olfactory abilities, preferences and activity times of its day- and night-active potentially pollinating flower visitors. "
176	Conocarpus erectus	Combretaceae	Yes	Aedes taeniorhynchus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1955_216	1955	J. S. Haeger	"The non-blood feeding habits of Aedes taeniorhynchus (Diptera: Culicidae) on Sanibel Island, Florida"	Mosquito News	15 (1)	21-26		"The feeding of mosquitoes on nectar producing plants was reviewed by Howard, Dyar and Knab (1912), and more recently by Hocking (1953) whose extensive observations in the Arctic are an exception to the more or less casual observations reported elsewhere in the literature. Such feeding o salt-marsh mosquitoes has not so far been reported beyond the observation of Smith (1904) on Aeds sollicitans in New Jersey: 'I have seen both sexes of this species feeding in the blossoms of wild cherry and it is quite probable that vegetable juices form a considerable element in the food of this species'."
177	Guiera senegalensis 	Combretaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
178	Conocarpus erectus	Combretaceae	Yes	Psorophora howardii	Other species of mosquitoes	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Haeger_1955_216	1955	J. S. Haeger	"The non-blood feeding habits of Aedes taeniorhynchus (Diptera: Culicidae) on Sanibel Island, Florida"	Mosquito News	15 (1)	21-26		"The feeding of mosquitoes on nectar producing plants was reviewed by Howard, Dyar and Knab (1912), and more recently by Hocking (1953) whose extensive observations in the Arctic are an exception to the more or less casual observations reported elsewhere in the literature. Such feeding o salt-marsh mosquitoes has not so far been reported beyond the observation of Smith (1904) on Aeds sollicitans in New Jersey: 'I have seen both sexes of this species feeding in the blossoms of wild cherry and it is quite probable that vegetable juices form a considerable element in the food of this species'."
179	Ipomoea batatas	Convolvulaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab_Semifield	Impoinvil_2004_206	2004	"D. E. Impoinvil, J. O. Kongere, W. A. Foster, B. N. Njiru, G. F. Killeen, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier, A. Hassanali, B. G. J. Knols"	Feeding and survival of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae on plants growing in Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	18 (2)	108-115	10.1111/j.0269-283X.2004.00484.x	"The propensity of the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) to ingest sugars from various plants, and subsequent survival rates, were assessed with laboratory-reared males and females offered eight species of plants commonly cultivated and/or growing wild in western Kenya. In cages (no-choice bioassay), mosquitoes given the opportunity to feed on castorbean (Ricinus communis L.) had the longest survival times (mean and median survival time of 6.99?±?0.23 and 5.67?±?0.17?days, respectively), comparable to mosquitoes given 6% glucose (mean and median survival time of 8.70?±?0.23 and 6.67?±?0.33?days, respectively). Survival rates of An.?gambiae were low on the other plants, comparable to mosquitoes given only water. Three plants: sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L.), wild sage (Lantana camara L.) and castorbean provided levels of sugar ingestion by both sexes of An.?gambiae detectable using the cold anthrone method, showing a positive correlation between median survival and sugar consumption (Spearman rank correlation coefficient?=?0.905, P?<?0.0001). Equal numbers of males and females were released in an enclosed semi-field screenhouse system containing a range of local plants, but no host for blood, and allowed to feed ad libitum: 6.7?±?0.5% (11/64) of those recaptured were found to contain detectable fructose (all females). Common plants are clearly a viable source of nutrition for adult female An.?gambiae, as well as males, and may constitute and important resource for this important malaria vector."
180	Cornus amomum	Cornaceae	Yes 	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
181	Cornus sericea	Cornaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
182	Cornus sericea	Cornaceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
183	Cornus sericea	Cornaceae	Yes 	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
184	Cucurbita pepo	Cucurbitaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Characteristics	Lab	Kenney_2017_194	2017	"A. Kenney, A. Cusick, J. Payne, A. Gaughenbaugh, A. Renshaw, J. Wright, R. Seeber, R. Barnes, A. Florjanczyk and J. Horzempa"	The potential for flower nectar to allow mosquito to mosquito transmission of Francisella tularensis	PLoS ONE	12 (5)	e0175157	10.1371/journal.pone.0175157	"Francisella tularensis is disseminated in nature by biting arthropods such as mosquitoes. The relationship between mosquitoes and F. tularensis in nature is highly ambiguous, due in part to the fact that mosquitoes have caused significant tularemia outbreaks despite being classified as a mechanical vector of F. tularensis. One possible explanation for mosquitoes being a prominent, yet mechanical vector is that these insects feed on flower nectar between blood meals, allowing for transmission of F. tularensis between mosquitoes. Here, we aimed to assess whether F. tularensis could survive in flower nectar. Moreover, we examined if mosquitoes could interact with or ingest and transmit F. tularensis from one source of nectar to another. F. tularensis exhibited robust survivability in flower nectar with concentrations of viable bacteria remaining consistent with the rich growth medium. Furthermore, F. tularensis was able to survive (albeit to a lesser extent) in 30% sucrose (a nectar surrogate) over a period of time consistent with that of a typical flower bloom. Although we observed diminished bacterial survival in the nectar surrogate, mosquitoes that fed on this material became colonized with F. tularensis. Finally, colonized mosquitoes were capable of transferring F. tularensis to a sterile nectar surrogate. These data suggest that flower nectar may be capable of serving as a temporary source of F. tularensis that could contribute to the amplification of outbreaks. Mosquitoes that feed on an infected mammalian host and subsequently feed on flower nectar could deposit some F. tularensis bacteria into the nectar in the process. Mosquitoes subsequently feeding on this nectar source could potentially become colonized by F. tularensis. Thus, the possibility exists that flower nectar may allow for vector-vector transmission of F. tularensis."
185	Echinocystis lobata	Cucurbitaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
186	Luffa acutangula 	Cucurbitaceae	Yes	Culex pilosus	Other Culex species	India	Identification	Characteristics	Field	Patil_2021_248	2021	" A. H. Patil, S. Jagdale"	"Nocturnal insect pollinator diversity and species richness in Ridge gourd, Luffa acutangula"	Journal of Applied and Natural Science	13 (2)	463-469	10.31018/jans.v13i2.2625	"Pollinators are rewarding for many wild and agricultural crop plants. The experiments were conducted in the agricultural field of Karad tehsil, Maharashtra, India. The present study concentrated on the diversity and species richness of nocturnal insect polli-nators on Ridge gourd Luffa acutangula belonging to the family Cucurbitaceae. The Ridge gourd plant is monoecious with a bunch of male flowers and solitary female flower. Anthesis happened in late evening hours (17.00-19.00) and flowers remained for 13 to 14 hours. A total of 830 insect pollinators were sampled from June 2020 to November 2020. Altogether 17 species of insect pollinators belonging to 7 families under 6 orders were recorded. Among the total number of species, the Lepidoptera was the dominant order comprising 11 species belonging to the single family Crambidae followed by Blattodea comprising 2 species belonging to 2 families Ectobiidae and Blattidae. Hymenoptera comprised 1 species belonging to family Formicidae, followed by order Orthoptera comprising 1 species belonging to family Gryllidae, order Diptera comprising 1 species belonging to the family Culicidae, followed by the order Coleoptera comprising 1 species belonging to the family Chrysomelidae. The Diaphnia hyalinata belonging to family Crambidae of the order Lepidoptera was the most dominant species and was followed by Chabula acamasalis. The nocturnal species imparted pollination services to agricultural crops. The study also observed fun-damental mechanisms of plant and nocturnal insect pollinator interaction as well as floral scent and visual signals. The study can be baseline data for conserving and managing the best pollinators for increasing the yield of Ridge gourd."
187	Vaccinium uliginosum	Ericaceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification 	Present	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
188	Euphorbia corollata	Euphorbiaceae	Yes 	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
189	Manihot esculenta	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Present, Characteristics"	Lab	Gary_2004_19	2004	R. E. Gary and W. A. Foster	Anopheles gambiae feeding and survival on honeydew and extra-floral nectar of peridomestic plants	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	18 (2)	102-107	10.1111/j.0269-283X.2004.00483.x	"It is widely believed that the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) rarely or never feeds on sugar in nature. If so, the need for supplemental blood-feeding may be increased and this would help to explain why it is such an efficient malaria vector. Nonetheless, both sexes of this mosquito species readily imbibe and digest sugar solutions, and sugar is a staple of laboratory colonies. In this study, we investigated whether An. gambiae will feed on the extra-floral nectar of three common peridomestic plants in Africa, and on honeydew of the mealybug Pseudococcus longispinus (Targioni-Tozetti) (Hemiptera: Homoptera: Pseudococcidae), and how this affects survivorship. We found that both males and females of An. gambiae provided with vegetative parts of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) survived as well (x??=?26.3 and 19.2?days, respectively) as they did on 50% sucrose solution (x??=?29.7 and 24.3?days, respectively) and much longer than they did on water alone (x??=?1.8?days, both sexes). Females provided with mealybug honeydew also lived substantially longer (x??=?16.5?days) than those on water alone. Males and females provided with vegetative parts of castorbean (Ricinus communis L.) also survived much longer (x??=?12.7 and 7.8?days, respectively) than on water, but those provided with flowering lantana (Lantana camara L.) did not. Anthrone tests of females after one night of exposure to these potential energy sources confirmed that they obtained fructose from cassava, from mealybug honeydew, and from non-flowering castorbean, but not from lantana or from castorbean lacking its petiolar nectaries. Previous laboratory studies had shown that sugar availability affects the survival and biting frequency of An. gambiae. It now appears that this mosquito can locate natural sources of plant sugar readily and utilize them effectively. Nectar-producing plants in the domestic environment may play a significant role in this mosquito's energy budget and malaria vectorial capacity."
190	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
191	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Lab	Gary_2004_19	2004	R. E. Gary and W. A. Foster	Anopheles gambiae feeding and survival on honeydew and extra-floral nectar of peridomestic plants	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	18 (2)	102-107	10.1111/j.0269-283X.2004.00483.x	"It is widely believed that the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) rarely or never feeds on sugar in nature. If so, the need for supplemental blood-feeding may be increased and this would help to explain why it is such an efficient malaria vector. Nonetheless, both sexes of this mosquito species readily imbibe and digest sugar solutions, and sugar is a staple of laboratory colonies. In this study, we investigated whether An. gambiae will feed on the extra-floral nectar of three common peridomestic plants in Africa, and on honeydew of the mealybug Pseudococcus longispinus (Targioni-Tozetti) (Hemiptera: Homoptera: Pseudococcidae), and how this affects survivorship. We found that both males and females of An. gambiae provided with vegetative parts of cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) survived as well (x??=?26.3 and 19.2?days, respectively) as they did on 50% sucrose solution (x??=?29.7 and 24.3?days, respectively) and much longer than they did on water alone (x??=?1.8?days, both sexes). Females provided with mealybug honeydew also lived substantially longer (x??=?16.5?days) than those on water alone. Males and females provided with vegetative parts of castorbean (Ricinus communis L.) also survived much longer (x??=?12.7 and 7.8?days, respectively) than on water, but those provided with flowering lantana (Lantana camara L.) did not. Anthrone tests of females after one night of exposure to these potential energy sources confirmed that they obtained fructose from cassava, from mealybug honeydew, and from non-flowering castorbean, but not from lantana or from castorbean lacking its petiolar nectaries. Previous laboratory studies had shown that sugar availability affects the survival and biting frequency of An. gambiae. It now appears that this mosquito can locate natural sources of plant sugar readily and utilize them effectively. Nectar-producing plants in the domestic environment may play a significant role in this mosquito's energy budget and malaria vectorial capacity."
192	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab_Semifield	Impoinvil_2004_206	2004	"D. E. Impoinvil, J. O. Kongere, W. A. Foster, B. N. Njiru, G. F. Killeen, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier, A. Hassanali, B. G. J. Knols"	Feeding and survival of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae on plants growing in Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	18 (2)	108-115	10.1111/j.0269-283X.2004.00484.x	"The propensity of the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) to ingest sugars from various plants, and subsequent survival rates, were assessed with laboratory-reared males and females offered eight species of plants commonly cultivated and/or growing wild in western Kenya. In cages (no-choice bioassay), mosquitoes given the opportunity to feed on castorbean (Ricinus communis L.) had the longest survival times (mean and median survival time of 6.99?±?0.23 and 5.67?±?0.17?days, respectively), comparable to mosquitoes given 6% glucose (mean and median survival time of 8.70?±?0.23 and 6.67?±?0.33?days, respectively). Survival rates of An.?gambiae were low on the other plants, comparable to mosquitoes given only water. Three plants: sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L.), wild sage (Lantana camara L.) and castorbean provided levels of sugar ingestion by both sexes of An.?gambiae detectable using the cold anthrone method, showing a positive correlation between median survival and sugar consumption (Spearman rank correlation coefficient?=?0.905, P?<?0.0001). Equal numbers of males and females were released in an enclosed semi-field screenhouse system containing a range of local plants, but no host for blood, and allowed to feed ad libitum: 6.7?±?0.5% (11/64) of those recaptured were found to contain detectable fructose (all females). Common plants are clearly a viable source of nutrition for adult female An.?gambiae, as well as males, and may constitute and important resource for this important malaria vector."
193	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Manda_2007_42	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, E. Nyandat, E. W. Kabiru, R. R. Jackson, W. A. Foster, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier and A. Hassanali"	Discriminative feeding behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.s. on endemic plants in western Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	21 (1)	103-111	10.1111/j.1365-2915.2007.00672.x	"Anopheles gambiae Giles s.s. (Diptera: Culicidae) is known to feed on plant sugars, but this is the first experimental study to consider whether it discriminates between plant species. Thirteen perennial plant species were selected on the basis of their local availability within the vicinity of human dwellings and larval habitats of An. gambiae s.s. in western Kenya. Groups of 100 or 200 mosquitoes were released into cages either with a cutting of one plant type at a time (single-plant assay) or with cuttings of all 13 plants simultaneously (choice assay), respectively, and left overnight. In the choice assay, direct observations of the percentages of mosquitoes perching or feeding on each plant were recorded over four 1-h periods each night. For both types of assay, mosquitoes were recaptured and the percentage that had fed on plants was assessed by testing them individually for the presence of fructose. To identify which plants the choice-assay mosquitoes had fed on, gas chromatography (GC) profiles of samples of mosquito homogenates were compared with GC profiles of extracts from relevant parts of each plant. Four of the plants that were observed to have been fed on most frequently in the choice assay (Parthenium hysterophorus L., Tecoma stans L., Ricinus communis L., and Senna didymobotrya Fresen) were also shown to have been ingested most often by mosquitoes in both types of assay, suggesting that An. gambiae is differentially responsive to this range of plants, regardless of whether the plants were presented singly or mixed together. Significantly more females than males fed on plants, with the exception of P. hysterophorus L., one of the plants most frequently fed on. For most plant species (ten of 13), GC profiles indicated that An. gambiae obtained sugars primarily from flowers. The exceptions were P. hysterophorus L., Lantana camara L. and R. communis L., on which An. gambiae fed more often from leaves and stems than from flowers."
194	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Manda_2007_220	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, W. A. Foster, R. R. Jackson, J. C. Beier, J. I. Githure and A. Hassanali"	Effect of discriminative plant-sugar feeding on the survival and fecundity of Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	6 (1)	113	10.1186/1475-2875-6-113	A previous study showed for Anopheles gambiae s.s. a gradation of feeding preference on common plant species growing in a malaria holoendemic area in western Kenya. The present follow-up study determines whether there is a relationship between the mosquito's preferences and its survival and fecundity.
195	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	"Present, Previously studied, Characteristics"	Lab	Nyasembe_2015_188	2015	"V. O. Nyasembe, X. Cheseto, F. Kaplan, W. A. Foster, P. E. A. Teal, J. H. Tumlinson, C. Borgemeister and B. Torto"	The invasive American weed parthenium hysterophorus can negatively impact malaria control in Africa	PLoS ONE	10 (9)	e0137836	10.1371/journal.pone.0137836	"The direct negative effects of invasive plant species on agriculture and biodiversity are well known, but their indirect effects on human health, and particularly their interactions with disease-transmitting vectors, remains poorly explored. This study sought to investigate the impact of the invasive Neotropical weed Parthenium hysterophorus and its toxins on the survival and energy reserves of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae. In this study, we compared the fitness of An. gambiae fed on three differentially attractive mosquito host plants and their major toxins; the highly aggressive invasive Neotropical weed Parthenium hysterophorus (Asteraceae) in East Africa and two other adapted weeds, Ricinus communis (Euphorbiaceae) and Bidens pilosa (Asteraceae). Our results showed that female An. gambiae fitness varied with host plants as females survived better and accumulated substantial energy reserves when fed on P. hysterophorus and R. communis compared to B. pilosa. Females tolerated parthenin and 1-phenylhepta-1, 3, 5-triyne, the toxins produced by P. hysterophorus and B. pilosa, respectively, but not ricinine produced by R. communis. Given that invasive plants like P. hysterophorus can suppress or even replace less competitive species that might be less suitable host-plants for arthropod disease vectors, the spread of invasive plants could lead to higher disease transmission. Parthenium hysterophorus represents a possible indirect effect of invasive plants on human health, which underpins the need to include an additional health dimension in risk-analysis modelling for invasive plants."
196	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Ebrahimi_2018_11	2018	"B. Ebrahimi, B. T. Jackson, J. L. Guseman, C. M. Przybylowicz, C. M. Stone and W. A. Foster"	Alteration of plant species assemblages can decrease the transmission potential of malaria mosquitoes	Journal of Applied Ecology	55 (2)	841-851	10.1111/1365-2664.13001	"Knowledge of the link between a vector population's pathogen-transmission potential and its biotic environment can generate more realistic forecasts of disease risk due to environmental change. It also can promote more effective vector control by both conventional and novel means. This study assessed the effect of particular plant species assemblages differing in nectar production on components of the vectorial capacity of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s., an important vector of African malaria. We followed cohorts of mosquitoes for 3 weeks in greenhouse mesocosms holding nectar-poor and nectar-rich plant species by tracking daily mortalities and estimating daily biting rates and fecundities. At death, a mosquito's insemination status and wing length were determined. These life-history traits allowed incorporation of larval dynamics into a vectorial capacity estimate. This new study provided both novel assemblages of putative host plants and a human blood host within a nocturnal period of maximum biting. Survivorship was significantly greater in nectar-rich environments than nectar-poor ones, resulting in greater total fecundity. Daily biting rate and fecundity per female between treatments was not detected. These results translated to greater estimated vectorial capacities in the nectar-rich environment in all four replicates of the experiment (means: 1,089.5 ± 125.2 vs. 518.3 ± 60.6). When mosquito density was made a function of survival and fecundity, rather than held constant, the difference between plant treatments was more pronounced, but so was the variance, so differences were not statistically significant. In the nectar-poor environment, females' survival suffered severely when a blood host was not provided. A sugar-accessibility experiment confirmed that Parthenium hysterophorus is a nectar-poor plant for these mosquitoes. Synthesis and applications. This study, assessing the effect of particular plant species assemblages on the vectorial capacity of malaria mosquitoes, highlights the likelihood that changes in plant communities (e.g. due to introduction of exotic or nectar-rich species) can increase malaria transmission and that a reduction of favourable nectar sources can reduce it. Also, plant communities' data can be used to identify potential high risk areas. Further studies are warranted to explore how and when management of plant species assemblages should be considered as an option in an integrated vector management strategy."
197	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
198	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Semifield	Zappia_2018_161	2018	"S. P. W. Zappia, A. M. Chubaty and B. D. Roitberg"	State-dependent domicile leaving rates in Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	17 (1)	25	10.1186/s12936-017-2166-4	"Background: Transmission of Plasmodium greatly depends on the foraging behaviour of its mosquito vector (Anopheles spp.). The accessibility of blood hosts and availability of plant sugar (i.e., nectar) sources, together with mosquito energy state, have been shown to modulate blood feeding (and thus biting rates) of anopheline mosquitoes. In this study, the influence of mosquito starvation status and availability of nectar on the decision of female Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes to leave a bed net-protected blood host was examined. Methods: Two small-scale mesocosm experiments were conducted using female mosquitoes starved for 0, 24 or 48 h, that were released inside a specially constructed hut with mesh-sealed exits and containing a bed net-protected human volunteer. Floral cues were positioned on one side of the hut or the other. Several biologically plausible exponential decay models were developed that characterized the emigration rates of mosquitoes from the huts. These varied from simple random loss to leaving rates dependent upon energy state and time. These model fits were evaluated by examining their fitted parameter estimates and comparing Akaike information criterion. Results: Starved mosquitoes left domiciles at a higher rate than recently fed individuals however, there was no difference between 1- and 2-day-starved mosquitoes. There was also no effect of floral cue placement. The best fitting emigration model was one based on both mosquito energy state and time whereas the worst fitting model was one based on the assumption of constant leaving rates, independent of time and energy state. Conclusions: The results confirm that mosquito-leaving behaviour is energy-state dependent, and provide some of the first evidence of state-dependent domicile emigration in An. gambiae, which may play a role in malarial transmission dynamics. Employment of simple, first-principle, mechanistic models can be very useful to our understanding of why and how mosquitoes leave domiciles."
199	Ricinus communis	Euphorbiaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
200	Ricinus communis 	Euphorbiaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
201	Acacia albida	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
202	Acacia macrostachya	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
203	Acacia macrostachya	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field_Lab	Sissoko_2019_71	2019	"F. Sissoko, A. Junnila, M. M. Traore, S. F. Traore, S. Doumbia, S. M. Dembele, Y. Schlein, A. S. Traore, P. Gergely, R. D. Xue, K. L. Arheart, E. E. Revay, V. D. Kravchenko, J. C. Beier and G. C. Müller"	"Frequent sugar feeding behavior by Aedes aegypti in Bamako, Mali makes them ideal candidates for control with attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB)"	PLoS ONE	14 (6)		10.1371/journal.pone.0214170	"Background: Current tools and strategies are not sufficient to reliably address threats and outbreaks of arboviruses including Zika, dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. Hence there is a growing public health challenge to identify the best new control tools to use against the vector Aedes aegypti. In this study, we investigated Ae. aegypti sugar feeding strategies in Bamako, Mali, to determine if this species can be controlled effectively using attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB). Methodology We determined the relative attraction of Ae. aegypti males and females to a variety of sugar sources including flowers, fruits, seedpods, and honeydew in the laboratory and using plant-baited traps in the field. Next, we observed the rhythm of blood feeding versus sugar feeding activity of Ae. aegypti in vegetation and in open areas. Finally, we studied the effectiveness of spraying vegetation with ATSB on Ae. aegypti in sugar rich (lush vegetation) and in sugar poor (sparse vegetation) urban environments. Principal findings Male and female laboratory sugar feeding rates within 24 h, on 8 of 16 plants offered were over 80%. The survival rates of mosquitoes on several plant sources were nearly as long as that of controls maintained on sucrose solution. In the field, females were highly attracted to 11 of 20 sugar sources, and 8 of these were attractive to males. Peak periods of host attraction for blood-feeding and sugar feeding in open areas were nearly identical and occurred shortly after sunrise and around sunset. In shaded areas, the first sugar-seeking peak occurred between 11:30 and 12:30 while the second was from 16:30 to 17:30. In a 50-day field trial, ATSB significantly reduced mean numbers of landing / biting female Ae. aegypti in the two types of vegetation. At sugar poor sites, the mean pre-treatment catch of 20.51 females on day 14 was reduced 70-fold to 0.29 on day 50. At sugar rich sites, the mean pretreatment catch of 32.46 females on day 14 was reduced 10-fold to a mean of 3.20 females on day 50. Conclusions This is the first study to show how the vector Ae. aegypti depends on environmental resources of sugar for feeding and survival. The demonstration that Ae. aegypti populations rapidly collapsed after ATSB treatment, in both sugar rich and sugar poor environments, is strong evidence that Ae. aegypti is sugar-feeding frequently. Indeed, this study clearly demonstrates that Ae. aegypti mosquitoes depend on natural sugar resources, and a promising new method for vector control, ATSB, can be highly effective in the fight against Aedes-transmitted diseases."
204	Acacia nilotica	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
205	Acacia raddiana	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles sergentii 	Anopheles sergentii 	Israel	Applications	"Present, Characteristics"	Field	Müller_2006_168	2006	G. Müller and Y. Schlein	Sugar questing mosquitoes in arid areas gather on scarce blossoms that can be used for control	International Journal for Parasitology	36 (10)	1077-1080	10.1016/j.ijpara.2006.06.008	"Floral nectar sugars provide energy for mosquito activities. We presumed that scarce flowering trees in arid areas are attractive, central sugar sources and tested the assumption in the southern desert of Israel. In traps baited with flowers of Acacia raddiana, Tamarix nilotica or Ochradenus baccatus the catch of Anopheles sergentii was _35–75 times greater than with baits of flowerless branches. At a small isolated oasis, a spray of sugar and food-dye solution on the few flowering A. raddiana trees dye-labelled 80–90% of A. sergentii. At a similar oasis, this spray with addition of oral insecticide, virtually eliminated the local mosquitoes."
206	Acacia raddiana	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Israel	Effect	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Gu_2011_102	2011	"W. D. Gu, G. Muller, Y. Schlein, R. J. Novak, J. C. Beier, G. Müller, Y. Schlein, R. J. Novak, J. C. Beier, G. Muller, Y. Schlein, R. J. Novak and J. C. Beier"	Natural plant sugar sources of Anopheles mosquitoes strongly impact malaria transmission potential	PLoS ONE	6 (1)	e15996	10.1371/journal.pone.0015996	"An improved knowledge of mosquito life history could strengthen malaria vector control efforts that primarily focus on killing mosquitoes indoors using insecticide treated nets and indoor residual spraying. Natural sugar sources, usually floral nectars of plants, are a primary energy resource for adult mosquitoes but their role in regulating the dynamics of mosquito populations is unclear. To determine how the sugar availability impacts Anopheles sergentii populations, mark-release-recapture studies were conducted in two oases in Israel with either absence or presence of the local primary sugar source, flowering Acacia raddiana trees. Compared with population estimates from the sugar-rich oasis, An. sergentii in the sugar-poor oasis showed smaller population size (37,494 vs. 85,595), lower survival rates (0.72 vs. 0.93), and prolonged gonotrophic cycles (3.33 vs. 2.36 days). The estimated number of females older than the extrinsic incubation period of malaria (10 days) in the sugar rich site was 4 times greater than in the sugar poor site. Sugar feeding detected in mosquito guts in the sugar-rich site was significantly higher (73%) than in the sugar-poor site (48%). In contrast, plant tissue feeding (poor quality sugar source) in the sugar-rich habitat was much less (0.3%) than in the sugar-poor site (30%). More important, the estimated vectorial capacity, a standard measure of malaria transmission potential, was more than 250-fold higher in the sugar-rich oasis than that in the sugar-poor site. Our results convincingly show that the availability of sugar sources in the local environment is a major determinant regulating the dynamics of mosquito populations and their vector potential, suggesting that control interventions targeting sugar-feeding mosquitoes pose a promising tactic for combating transmission of malaria parasites and other pathogens."
207	Acacia salicina	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field_Lab	Sissoko_2019_71	2019	"F. Sissoko, A. Junnila, M. M. Traore, S. F. Traore, S. Doumbia, S. M. Dembele, Y. Schlein, A. S. Traore, P. Gergely, R. D. Xue, K. L. Arheart, E. E. Revay, V. D. Kravchenko, J. C. Beier and G. C. Müller"	"Frequent sugar feeding behavior by Aedes aegypti in Bamako, Mali makes them ideal candidates for control with attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB)"	PLoS ONE	14 (6)		10.1371/journal.pone.0214170	"Background: Current tools and strategies are not sufficient to reliably address threats and outbreaks of arboviruses including Zika, dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. Hence there is a growing public health challenge to identify the best new control tools to use against the vector Aedes aegypti. In this study, we investigated Ae. aegypti sugar feeding strategies in Bamako, Mali, to determine if this species can be controlled effectively using attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB). Methodology We determined the relative attraction of Ae. aegypti males and females to a variety of sugar sources including flowers, fruits, seedpods, and honeydew in the laboratory and using plant-baited traps in the field. Next, we observed the rhythm of blood feeding versus sugar feeding activity of Ae. aegypti in vegetation and in open areas. Finally, we studied the effectiveness of spraying vegetation with ATSB on Ae. aegypti in sugar rich (lush vegetation) and in sugar poor (sparse vegetation) urban environments. Principal findings Male and female laboratory sugar feeding rates within 24 h, on 8 of 16 plants offered were over 80%. The survival rates of mosquitoes on several plant sources were nearly as long as that of controls maintained on sucrose solution. In the field, females were highly attracted to 11 of 20 sugar sources, and 8 of these were attractive to males. Peak periods of host attraction for blood-feeding and sugar feeding in open areas were nearly identical and occurred shortly after sunrise and around sunset. In shaded areas, the first sugar-seeking peak occurred between 11:30 and 12:30 while the second was from 16:30 to 17:30. In a 50-day field trial, ATSB significantly reduced mean numbers of landing / biting female Ae. aegypti in the two types of vegetation. At sugar poor sites, the mean pre-treatment catch of 20.51 females on day 14 was reduced 70-fold to 0.29 on day 50. At sugar rich sites, the mean pretreatment catch of 32.46 females on day 14 was reduced 10-fold to a mean of 3.20 females on day 50. Conclusions This is the first study to show how the vector Ae. aegypti depends on environmental resources of sugar for feeding and survival. The demonstration that Ae. aegypti populations rapidly collapsed after ATSB treatment, in both sugar rich and sugar poor environments, is strong evidence that Ae. aegypti is sugar-feeding frequently. Indeed, this study clearly demonstrates that Ae. aegypti mosquitoes depend on natural sugar resources, and a promising new method for vector control, ATSB, can be highly effective in the fight against Aedes-transmitted diseases."
208	Acacia saligna	Fabaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Israel	Applications	Present	Field	Schlein_2008_13	2008	Y. Schlein and G. C. Müller	An approach to mosquito control: Using the dominant attraction of flowering Tamarix jordanis trees against Culex pipiens	Journal of Medical Entomology	45 (3)	384-390	10.1093/jmedent/45.3.384	"In this study, we identified blossoms that attract Culex pipiens L. s.l. in a Mediterranean habitat by using branches of 26 common plant species as baits for traps. The highest catch, 60.5% of the total, by flowers of Tamarix jordanis Boiss., was ≈6 times greater than the 10.7% caught by flowering Polygonum equisetiforme Sm., and 10 times higher than the 6.6% caught by flowers of Acacia saligna (Lindle) H. L. Wendl. The catch elicited by the other plants ranged between 4.0 and 0.1%. Plant attraction also was evaluated in a field situation. Experimental and control sites were similar strips of vegetation along water channels with T. jordanis trees in the center. In the experimental site, these trees were sprayed with sucrose solution, food dye, and oral insecticide (Spinosad). Concurrently, patches of plant species and trees in the control site were sprayed with solutions of sucrose and different food dye markers. Cx. pipiens populations in both sites were monitored. The highest proportion (65.2%) of the marked mosquitoes in the control site carried the dye of flowering T. jordanis. The dye of flowering P. equisetiforme and that of A. saligna were found, respectively, in 8.1 and 3.5% of the labeled mosquitoes. The marker of reed groups (Phragmites australis [Cav.] Steudel) above the water was found in 19.4% of mosquitoes, whereas the different marker of dry land reeds was found in only 0.4% of the labeled mosquitoes. In the experimental site, after treatment, the mosquitoes decreased from ≈255 per trap to ≈24 mosquitoes per trap, whereas the catch in the control site reached ≈400 mosquitoes per trap."
209	Acacia senegal	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
210	Alhagi maurorum 	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Egypt	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Abdel-Malek_1964_226	1964	A. A. Abdel-Malek	Study of the feeding habits of male Anopheles sergentii Theo. at Sixa oasis using radiophosphorus 	Bulletin of the World Health Organization	30 (1)	137-139		"The development of resistance to insecticides by numerous species of mosquitos has focused attention on the need for supplementary and alternative control procedures. Assessments are thus now being made of the potentialities of various types of ecological control, and in this connexion a need has been felt for more specific information in the neg- lected area of the feeding habits of male mosquitos innature.
Specificity of plant feeding having recently been demonstrated for the males of four species of Aedes in Canada,a the present WHO-sponsored study was designed to investigate the suitability of the various plants of an ecologically isolated habitat as food for male Anopheles sergenti Theo. and the natural feeding habits of these insects. The project was undertaken at Siwa Oasis, from 19 May to 28 June 1963."
211	Cassia fasciculata	Fabaceae	Yes 	Culex nigripalpus	Other Culex species	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Burkett_1999_167	1999	"D. A. Burkett, D. A. Carlson and D. L. Kline"	Sugar meal composition of five north central Florida mosquito species (Diptera: Culicidae) as determined by gas chromatography	Journal of Medical Entomology	36 (4)	462-467	10.1093/jmedent/36.4.462	"Gas chromatography was used to analyze sugars found in individual crops fed on by wild caught adult Anopheles quadrimaculatus s.l. (Say), Coquillettidia perturbans (Walker), Culex nigripalpus Theobald, Culiseta melanura (Coquillett), and Psorophora ferox (von Humboldt) from several north central Florida locations. A wide range of sugars was found, including fructose, glucose, sucrose, maltose, turanose, melezitose, trehalose, raffinose, erlose, and traces of arabinose, rhamnose, and several unknowns. The frequency of individuals testing positive for crop sugars ranged from 9-10% in An. quadrimaculatus and Ps. ferox to 46% in Cq. perturbans. Based on the presence of melezitose or erlose in the crop, honeydew feeding was shown to be an important dietary component in An. quadrimaculatus (57%), Cs. melanura (31%), Cx. nigripalpus (15%). Cq. perturbans (10%), and Ps. ferox (7%). Gas chromatography of crude crop contents is a rapid one-step process that can address important questions such as the source and occurrence of sugar feeding in Diptera. Unique sugar feeding field observations were recorded for several mosquito species."
212	Cassia fasciculata	Fabaceae	Yes 	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Burkett_1999_167	1999	"D. A. Burkett, D. A. Carlson and D. L. Kline"	Sugar meal composition of five north central Florida mosquito species (Diptera: Culicidae) as determined by gas chromatography	Journal of Medical Entomology	36 (4)	462-467	10.1093/jmedent/36.4.462	"Gas chromatography was used to analyze sugars found in individual crops fed on by wild caught adult Anopheles quadrimaculatus s.l. (Say), Coquillettidia perturbans (Walker), Culex nigripalpus Theobald, Culiseta melanura (Coquillett), and Psorophora ferox (von Humboldt) from several north central Florida locations. A wide range of sugars was found, including fructose, glucose, sucrose, maltose, turanose, melezitose, trehalose, raffinose, erlose, and traces of arabinose, rhamnose, and several unknowns. The frequency of individuals testing positive for crop sugars ranged from 9-10% in An. quadrimaculatus and Ps. ferox to 46% in Cq. perturbans. Based on the presence of melezitose or erlose in the crop, honeydew feeding was shown to be an important dietary component in An. quadrimaculatus (57%), Cs. melanura (31%), Cx. nigripalpus (15%). Cq. perturbans (10%), and Ps. ferox (7%). Gas chromatography of crude crop contents is a rapid one-step process that can address important questions such as the source and occurrence of sugar feeding in Diptera. Unique sugar feeding field observations were recorded for several mosquito species."
213	Cassia siberiana	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Burkina Faso	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Gouagna_2010_135	2010	"L. C. Gouagna, R. S. Poueme, K. R. Dabiré, J. B. Ouédraogo, D. Fontenille and F. Simard"	Patterns of sugar feeding and host plant preferences in adult males of An. gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of Vector Ecology	35 (2)	267-276	10.1111/j.1948-7134.2010.00082.x	"Sugar feeding by male mosquitoes is critical for their success in mating competition. However, the facets of sugar source finding under natural conditions remain unknown. Here, evidence obtained in Western Burkina Faso indicated that the distribution of An. gambiae s.s. (M and S molecular forms) males across different peri-domestic habitats is dependent on the availability of potential sugar sources from which they obtain more favorable sites for feeding or resting. Among field-collected anophelines, a higher proportion of specimens containing fructose were found on flowering Mangifera indica (Anacardiaceae), Dolonix regia (Fabaceae), Thevetia neriifolia (Apocynaceae), Senna siamea, and Cassia sieberiana (both Fabaceae) compared to that recorded on other nearby plants, suggesting that some plants are favored for use as a sugar source over others. Y-tube olfactometer assays with newly-emerged An. gambiae s.s. exposed to odors from individual plants and some combinations thereof showed that males use odor cues to guide their preference. The number of sugar-positive males was variable in a no-choice cage assay, consistent with the olfactory response patterns towards corresponding odor stimuli. These experiments provide the first evidence both in field and laboratory conditions for previously unstudied interactions between males of An. gambiae and natural sugar sources."
214	Ceratonia siliqua	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
215	Crotalaria sp.	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
216	Delonix regia 	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Burkina Faso	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Gouagna_2010_135	2010	"L. C. Gouagna, R. S. Poueme, K. R. Dabiré, J. B. Ouédraogo, D. Fontenille and F. Simard"	Patterns of sugar feeding and host plant preferences in adult males of An. gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of Vector Ecology	35 (2)	267-276	10.1111/j.1948-7134.2010.00082.x	"Sugar feeding by male mosquitoes is critical for their success in mating competition. However, the facets of sugar source finding under natural conditions remain unknown. Here, evidence obtained in Western Burkina Faso indicated that the distribution of An. gambiae s.s. (M and S molecular forms) males across different peri-domestic habitats is dependent on the availability of potential sugar sources from which they obtain more favorable sites for feeding or resting. Among field-collected anophelines, a higher proportion of specimens containing fructose were found on flowering Mangifera indica (Anacardiaceae), Dolonix regia (Fabaceae), Thevetia neriifolia (Apocynaceae), Senna siamea, and Cassia sieberiana (both Fabaceae) compared to that recorded on other nearby plants, suggesting that some plants are favored for use as a sugar source over others. Y-tube olfactometer assays with newly-emerged An. gambiae s.s. exposed to odors from individual plants and some combinations thereof showed that males use odor cues to guide their preference. The number of sugar-positive males was variable in a no-choice cage assay, consistent with the olfactory response patterns towards corresponding odor stimuli. These experiments provide the first evidence both in field and laboratory conditions for previously unstudied interactions between males of An. gambiae and natural sugar sources."
217	Melilotus albus	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
218	Pithecellobium dulce	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nyasembe_2021_247	2021	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, M. N. Muturi, M. P. Njeri, Pirk, C. W. W., C. L. Sole, B. Torto"	Plant nutrient quality impacts survival and reproductive fitness of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti	Parasites & Vectors	14 (1)	4	10.1186/s13071-020-04519-y	"In a recent study using DNA barcoding, we identified the plants fed upon by four Afro-tropical mosquito species that vector dengue, malaria, and Rift Valley fever. Herein, we have expanded on this study by investigating the role of three of the plants, Pithecellobium dulce (Fabaceae), Leonotis nepetifolia (Lamiaceae), and Opuntia ficus-indica (Cactaceae), on the survival, fecundity, and egg viability of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti."
219	Pithecellobium dulce 	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
220	Prosopis farcta	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
221	Prosopis juliflora	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles spp	Other Anopheles species	Mali	Effect	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Müller_2017_208	2017	"G. C. Muller, A. Junnila, M. M. Traore, S. F. Traore, S. Doumbia, F. Sissoko, S. M. Dembele, Y. Schlein, K. L. Arheart, E. E. Revay, V. D. Kravchenko, A. Witt, J. C. Beier"	The invasive shrub Prosopis juliflora enhances the malaria parasite transmission capacity of Anopheles mosquitoes: a habitat manipulation experiment	Malaria Journal	16 (1)	237	10.1186/s12936-017-1878-9	"A neglected aspect of alien invasive plant species is their influence on mosquito vector ecology and malaria transmission. Invasive plants that are highly attractive to Anopheles mosquitoes provide them with sugar that is critical to their survival. The effect on Anopheles mosquito populations was examined through a habitat manipulation experiment that removed the flowering branches of highly attractive Prosopis juliflora from selected villages in Mali, West Africa."
222	Prosopis juliflora	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field_Lab	Sissoko_2019_71	2019	"F. Sissoko, A. Junnila, M. M. Traore, S. F. Traore, S. Doumbia, S. M. Dembele, Y. Schlein, A. S. Traore, P. Gergely, R. D. Xue, K. L. Arheart, E. E. Revay, V. D. Kravchenko, J. C. Beier and G. C. Müller"	"Frequent sugar feeding behavior by Aedes aegypti in Bamako, Mali makes them ideal candidates for control with attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB)"	PLoS ONE	14 (6)		10.1371/journal.pone.0214170	"Background: Current tools and strategies are not sufficient to reliably address threats and outbreaks of arboviruses including Zika, dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. Hence there is a growing public health challenge to identify the best new control tools to use against the vector Aedes aegypti. In this study, we investigated Ae. aegypti sugar feeding strategies in Bamako, Mali, to determine if this species can be controlled effectively using attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB). Methodology We determined the relative attraction of Ae. aegypti males and females to a variety of sugar sources including flowers, fruits, seedpods, and honeydew in the laboratory and using plant-baited traps in the field. Next, we observed the rhythm of blood feeding versus sugar feeding activity of Ae. aegypti in vegetation and in open areas. Finally, we studied the effectiveness of spraying vegetation with ATSB on Ae. aegypti in sugar rich (lush vegetation) and in sugar poor (sparse vegetation) urban environments. Principal findings Male and female laboratory sugar feeding rates within 24 h, on 8 of 16 plants offered were over 80%. The survival rates of mosquitoes on several plant sources were nearly as long as that of controls maintained on sucrose solution. In the field, females were highly attracted to 11 of 20 sugar sources, and 8 of these were attractive to males. Peak periods of host attraction for blood-feeding and sugar feeding in open areas were nearly identical and occurred shortly after sunrise and around sunset. In shaded areas, the first sugar-seeking peak occurred between 11:30 and 12:30 while the second was from 16:30 to 17:30. In a 50-day field trial, ATSB significantly reduced mean numbers of landing / biting female Ae. aegypti in the two types of vegetation. At sugar poor sites, the mean pre-treatment catch of 20.51 females on day 14 was reduced 70-fold to 0.29 on day 50. At sugar rich sites, the mean pretreatment catch of 32.46 females on day 14 was reduced 10-fold to a mean of 3.20 females on day 50. Conclusions This is the first study to show how the vector Ae. aegypti depends on environmental resources of sugar for feeding and survival. The demonstration that Ae. aegypti populations rapidly collapsed after ATSB treatment, in both sugar rich and sugar poor environments, is strong evidence that Ae. aegypti is sugar-feeding frequently. Indeed, this study clearly demonstrates that Ae. aegypti mosquitoes depend on natural sugar resources, and a promising new method for vector control, ATSB, can be highly effective in the fight against Aedes-transmitted diseases."
223	Senna alata	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
224	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Manda_2007_42	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, E. Nyandat, E. W. Kabiru, R. R. Jackson, W. A. Foster, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier and A. Hassanali"	Discriminative feeding behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.s. on endemic plants in western Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	21 (1)	103-111	10.1111/j.1365-2915.2007.00672.x	"Anopheles gambiae Giles s.s. (Diptera: Culicidae) is known to feed on plant sugars, but this is the first experimental study to consider whether it discriminates between plant species. Thirteen perennial plant species were selected on the basis of their local availability within the vicinity of human dwellings and larval habitats of An. gambiae s.s. in western Kenya. Groups of 100 or 200 mosquitoes were released into cages either with a cutting of one plant type at a time (single-plant assay) or with cuttings of all 13 plants simultaneously (choice assay), respectively, and left overnight. In the choice assay, direct observations of the percentages of mosquitoes perching or feeding on each plant were recorded over four 1-h periods each night. For both types of assay, mosquitoes were recaptured and the percentage that had fed on plants was assessed by testing them individually for the presence of fructose. To identify which plants the choice-assay mosquitoes had fed on, gas chromatography (GC) profiles of samples of mosquito homogenates were compared with GC profiles of extracts from relevant parts of each plant. Four of the plants that were observed to have been fed on most frequently in the choice assay (Parthenium hysterophorus L., Tecoma stans L., Ricinus communis L., and Senna didymobotrya Fresen) were also shown to have been ingested most often by mosquitoes in both types of assay, suggesting that An. gambiae is differentially responsive to this range of plants, regardless of whether the plants were presented singly or mixed together. Significantly more females than males fed on plants, with the exception of P. hysterophorus L., one of the plants most frequently fed on. For most plant species (ten of 13), GC profiles indicated that An. gambiae obtained sugars primarily from flowers. The exceptions were P. hysterophorus L., Lantana camara L. and R. communis L., on which An. gambiae fed more often from leaves and stems than from flowers."
225	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Manda_2007_220	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, W. A. Foster, R. R. Jackson, J. C. Beier, J. I. Githure and A. Hassanali"	Effect of discriminative plant-sugar feeding on the survival and fecundity of Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	6 (1)	113	10.1186/1475-2875-6-113	A previous study showed for Anopheles gambiae s.s. a gradation of feeding preference on common plant species growing in a malaria holoendemic area in western Kenya. The present follow-up study determines whether there is a relationship between the mosquito's preferences and its survival and fecundity.
226	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US	Effect	Previously studied	Semifield	Stone_2012_49	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	"Effects of bed net use, female size, and plant abundance on the first meal choice (blood vs sugar) of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae"	Malaria Journal	11 (3)		10.1186/1475-2875-11-3	"Background: The purpose of this study was to determine whether the sugar-or-blood meal choice of Anopheles gambiae females one day after emergence is influenced by blood-host presence and accessibility, nectariferous plant abundance, and female size. This tested the hypothesis that the initial meal of female An. gambiae is sugar, even when a blood host is available throughout the night, and, if not, whether the use of a bed net diverts mosquitoes to sugar sources. Methods. Females and males <1-day post-emergence were released in a mesocosm. Overnight they had access to either one or six Senna didymobotrya plants. Simultaneously they had access to a human blood host, either for 8 h or for only 30 min at dusk and dawn (the remainder of the night being excluded by an untreated bed net). In a third situation, the blood host was not present. All mosquitoes were collected in the morning. Their wing lengths, an indicator of pre-meal energetic state, were measured, and their meal choice was determined by the presence of midgut blood and of fructose. Results: Female sugar feeding after emergence was facultative. When a blood host was accessible for 8 h per night, 92% contained blood, and only 3.7% contained sugar. Even with the use of a bed net, 78% managed to obtain a blood meal during the 30 min of accessibility at dusk or dawn, but 14% of females were now fructose-positive. In the absence of a blood host, and when either one or six plants were available, a total of 21.7% and 23.6% of females and 30.8% and 43.5% of males contained fructose, respectively. Feeding on both sugar and blood was more likely with bed net use and with greater plant abundance. Further, mosquitoes that fed on both resources were more often small and had taken a sugar meal earlier than the blood meal. The abundance of sugar hosts also affected the probability of sugar feeding by males and the amount of fructose obtained by both males and females. Conclusion: Even in an abundance of potential sugar sources, female An. gambiae appear to prefer a nearby human source of blood. However, the decision to take sugar was more likely if energy reserves were low. Results probably would differ if sugar hosts were more attractive or yielded larger sugar meals. The diversion of energetically deprived mosquitoes to sugar sources suggests a possible synergy between bed nets and sugar-based control methods."
227	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Semifield	Jackson_2015_4	2015	"B. T. Jackson, C. M. Stone, B. Ebrahimi, O. J. T. Briët and W. A. Foster"	A low-cost mesocosm for the study of behaviour and reproductive potential in Afrotropical mosquito (Diptera: Culicidae) vectors of malaria	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	29 (1)	104-109	10.1111/mve.12085	"A large-scale mesocosm was constructed and tested for its effectiveness for use in experiments on behaviour, reproduction and adult survivorship in the Afrotropical malaria vector Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) in temperate climates. The large space (82.69 m(3) ) allowed for semi-natural experiments that increased demand on a mosquito's energetic reserves in an environment of widely distributed resources. A one-piece prefabricated enclosure, made with white netting and vinyl, prevented the ingress of predators and the egress of mosquitoes. Daylight and white materials prompted the mosquitoes to seclude themselves in restricted daytime resting sites and allowed the easy collection of dead bodies so that daily mortality could be assessed accurately using a method that accounts for the loss of a proportion of bodies. Here, daily, age-dependent mortality rates of males and females were estimated using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation. In overnight experiments, mosquitoes successfully located plants and took sugar meals. A 3-week survival trial with a single cohort demonstrated successful mating, blood feeding, oviposition and long life. The relatively low cost of the mesocosm and the performance of the mosquitoes in it make it a viable option for any behavioural or ecological study of tropical mosquitoes in which space and seasonal cold are constraining factors."
228	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nikbakhtzadeh_2016_171	2016	"M. R. Nikbakhtzadeh, J. W. Terbot and W. A. Foster"		Journal of Medical Entomology	53 (5)	1105-1111	10.1093/jme/tjw067	"Mosquitoes derive energy from plant sugar, thereby promoting survival and reproduction. Its survival value to females plays a key role in the vectorial capacity of mosquito populations. Previous olfactometry assays of responsiveness demonstrated that Senna didymobotrya Fresenius, Parthenium hysterophorus, L. Senna occidentalis, (L) and Lantana camara L were among the most attractive plants for the Mbita strain of Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles in eastern Africa. Here, we provide experimental evidence that three of these four species also provide varying but substantial amounts of sugar for mosquito survival, whereas a fourth does not. Rank order of survival of both sexes of mosquitoes housed with these plants was as follows: S. didymobotrya was highest, followed by S. occidentalis and L. camara, whereas survival on P. hysterophorus was only slightly better than on only water. A positive control group, housed with 10% sucrose, survived well but fell significantly short of those with S. didymobotrya. A causal connection between survival and sugar availability was established by exposing mosquitoes to plants overnight, and then testing them for the presence and amount of undigested fructose. Fructose positivity was most frequent in those exposed to L. camara, whereas greatest amounts of fructose were obtained from S. occidentalis and S. didymobotrya. Parthenium hysterophorus scored lowest in both categories. We conclude that attractiveness and sugar availability are often, but not always, concordant. It remains unclear why P. hysterophorus should be attractive if it offers little sugar and does not prolong survival. Furthermore, the cause behind the superior survival benefit of S. didymobotrya, compared with 10% sucrose, is unknown."
229	Senna didymobotrya	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Ebrahimi_2018_11	2018	"B. Ebrahimi, B. T. Jackson, J. L. Guseman, C. M. Przybylowicz, C. M. Stone and W. A. Foster"	Alteration of plant species assemblages can decrease the transmission potential of malaria mosquitoes	Journal of Applied Ecology	55 (2)	841-851	10.1111/1365-2664.13001	"Knowledge of the link between a vector population's pathogen-transmission potential and its biotic environment can generate more realistic forecasts of disease risk due to environmental change. It also can promote more effective vector control by both conventional and novel means. This study assessed the effect of particular plant species assemblages differing in nectar production on components of the vectorial capacity of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s., an important vector of African malaria. We followed cohorts of mosquitoes for 3 weeks in greenhouse mesocosms holding nectar-poor and nectar-rich plant species by tracking daily mortalities and estimating daily biting rates and fecundities. At death, a mosquito's insemination status and wing length were determined. These life-history traits allowed incorporation of larval dynamics into a vectorial capacity estimate. This new study provided both novel assemblages of putative host plants and a human blood host within a nocturnal period of maximum biting. Survivorship was significantly greater in nectar-rich environments than nectar-poor ones, resulting in greater total fecundity. Daily biting rate and fecundity per female between treatments was not detected. These results translated to greater estimated vectorial capacities in the nectar-rich environment in all four replicates of the experiment (means: 1,089.5 ± 125.2 vs. 518.3 ± 60.6). When mosquito density was made a function of survival and fecundity, rather than held constant, the difference between plant treatments was more pronounced, but so was the variance, so differences were not statistically significant. In the nectar-poor environment, females' survival suffered severely when a blood host was not provided. A sugar-accessibility experiment confirmed that Parthenium hysterophorus is a nectar-poor plant for these mosquitoes. Synthesis and applications. This study, assessing the effect of particular plant species assemblages on the vectorial capacity of malaria mosquitoes, highlights the likelihood that changes in plant communities (e.g. due to introduction of exotic or nectar-rich species) can increase malaria transmission and that a reduction of favourable nectar sources can reduce it. Also, plant communities' data can be used to identify potential high risk areas. Further studies are warranted to explore how and when management of plant species assemblages should be considered as an option in an integrated vector management strategy."
230	Senna didymobotrya 	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
231	Senna occidentalis	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Identification	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Lab	Guseman_2014_215	2014	J.L. Guseman	Foraging Behavior of Anopheles gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae) on Parthenium hysterophorus (Compositae) and Senna occidentalis (Fabaceae)	"The Ohio State University. Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology Honors Theses; 2014"				"Foraging behavior of Anopheles gambiae, a malaria vector, was analyzed on Parthenium hysterophorus and Senna occidentalis through the use of video recordings. The two plant species are invasive plants known to be exceptionally attractive to An. gambiae but thought to yield very different amounts of sugar. With the importance of sugar as an energy reserve for flying, mating, blood feeding, and reproduction, foraging and finding access to sugar is a critical component of the life of a mosquito. Due to the differences in sugar production of the two plants, I hypothesized that foraging behavior of An. gambiae would differ greatly between the two plants, with more sugar being obtained from S. occidentalis On P. hysterophorus, the putative sugar- poor plant host, mosquitoes spent significantly more time on plants with flowers than without. On plants with flowers, both males and females exhibited a directed search for sugar, landing and foraging primarily on the prominent flowers and spending well over half of their time involved in foraging behavior (probing) on all parts of the plant. Males and females spent 80% and 58% of their time, respectively, on flowers, with 99% and 77% of that time devoted to foraging. However, for all their effort, they seldom obtained a sugar meal, with only 3.1% of males and 11.3% of females testing positive for fructose. On S. occidentalis, which produces visible amounts of sugar on prominent extra-floral nectaries, males and females spent 22% and 32% of their time, respectively, on EFNs, with 86% and 88% of that time devoted to foraging. After foraging on S. occidentalis, 46.2% of males and 50% of females were positive for fructose. S. occidentalis was more beneficial to An. gambiae in terms of energetics, and should be the focus of further malaria-control research."
232	Senna occidentalis	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nikbakhtzadeh_2016_171	2016	"M. R. Nikbakhtzadeh, J. W. Terbot and W. A. Foster"		Journal of Medical Entomology	53 (5)	1105-1111	10.1093/jme/tjw067	"Mosquitoes derive energy from plant sugar, thereby promoting survival and reproduction. Its survival value to females plays a key role in the vectorial capacity of mosquito populations. Previous olfactometry assays of responsiveness demonstrated that Senna didymobotrya Fresenius, Parthenium hysterophorus, L. Senna occidentalis, (L) and Lantana camara L were among the most attractive plants for the Mbita strain of Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles in eastern Africa. Here, we provide experimental evidence that three of these four species also provide varying but substantial amounts of sugar for mosquito survival, whereas a fourth does not. Rank order of survival of both sexes of mosquitoes housed with these plants was as follows: S. didymobotrya was highest, followed by S. occidentalis and L. camara, whereas survival on P. hysterophorus was only slightly better than on only water. A positive control group, housed with 10% sucrose, survived well but fell significantly short of those with S. didymobotrya. A causal connection between survival and sugar availability was established by exposing mosquitoes to plants overnight, and then testing them for the presence and amount of undigested fructose. Fructose positivity was most frequent in those exposed to L. camara, whereas greatest amounts of fructose were obtained from S. occidentalis and S. didymobotrya. Parthenium hysterophorus scored lowest in both categories. We conclude that attractiveness and sugar availability are often, but not always, concordant. It remains unclear why P. hysterophorus should be attractive if it offers little sugar and does not prolong survival. Furthermore, the cause behind the superior survival benefit of S. didymobotrya, compared with 10% sucrose, is unknown."
233	Senna occidentalis 	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
234	Senna occidentalis 	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Ebrahimi_2018_11	2018	"B. Ebrahimi, B. T. Jackson, J. L. Guseman, C. M. Przybylowicz, C. M. Stone and W. A. Foster"	Alteration of plant species assemblages can decrease the transmission potential of malaria mosquitoes	Journal of Applied Ecology	55 (2)	841-851	10.1111/1365-2664.13001	"Knowledge of the link between a vector population's pathogen-transmission potential and its biotic environment can generate more realistic forecasts of disease risk due to environmental change. It also can promote more effective vector control by both conventional and novel means. This study assessed the effect of particular plant species assemblages differing in nectar production on components of the vectorial capacity of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s., an important vector of African malaria. We followed cohorts of mosquitoes for 3 weeks in greenhouse mesocosms holding nectar-poor and nectar-rich plant species by tracking daily mortalities and estimating daily biting rates and fecundities. At death, a mosquito's insemination status and wing length were determined. These life-history traits allowed incorporation of larval dynamics into a vectorial capacity estimate. This new study provided both novel assemblages of putative host plants and a human blood host within a nocturnal period of maximum biting. Survivorship was significantly greater in nectar-rich environments than nectar-poor ones, resulting in greater total fecundity. Daily biting rate and fecundity per female between treatments was not detected. These results translated to greater estimated vectorial capacities in the nectar-rich environment in all four replicates of the experiment (means: 1,089.5 ± 125.2 vs. 518.3 ± 60.6). When mosquito density was made a function of survival and fecundity, rather than held constant, the difference between plant treatments was more pronounced, but so was the variance, so differences were not statistically significant. In the nectar-poor environment, females' survival suffered severely when a blood host was not provided. A sugar-accessibility experiment confirmed that Parthenium hysterophorus is a nectar-poor plant for these mosquitoes. Synthesis and applications. This study, assessing the effect of particular plant species assemblages on the vectorial capacity of malaria mosquitoes, highlights the likelihood that changes in plant communities (e.g. due to introduction of exotic or nectar-rich species) can increase malaria transmission and that a reduction of favourable nectar sources can reduce it. Also, plant communities' data can be used to identify potential high risk areas. Further studies are warranted to explore how and when management of plant species assemblages should be considered as an option in an integrated vector management strategy."
235	Senna siamea	Fabaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Burkina Faso	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Gouagna_2010_135	2010	"L. C. Gouagna, R. S. Poueme, K. R. Dabiré, J. B. Ouédraogo, D. Fontenille and F. Simard"	Patterns of sugar feeding and host plant preferences in adult males of An. gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of Vector Ecology	35 (2)	267-276	10.1111/j.1948-7134.2010.00082.x	"Sugar feeding by male mosquitoes is critical for their success in mating competition. However, the facets of sugar source finding under natural conditions remain unknown. Here, evidence obtained in Western Burkina Faso indicated that the distribution of An. gambiae s.s. (M and S molecular forms) males across different peri-domestic habitats is dependent on the availability of potential sugar sources from which they obtain more favorable sites for feeding or resting. Among field-collected anophelines, a higher proportion of specimens containing fructose were found on flowering Mangifera indica (Anacardiaceae), Dolonix regia (Fabaceae), Thevetia neriifolia (Apocynaceae), Senna siamea, and Cassia sieberiana (both Fabaceae) compared to that recorded on other nearby plants, suggesting that some plants are favored for use as a sugar source over others. Y-tube olfactometer assays with newly-emerged An. gambiae s.s. exposed to odors from individual plants and some combinations thereof showed that males use odor cues to guide their preference. The number of sugar-positive males was variable in a no-choice cage assay, consistent with the olfactory response patterns towards corresponding odor stimuli. These experiments provide the first evidence both in field and laboratory conditions for previously unstudied interactions between males of An. gambiae and natural sugar sources."
236	Senna tora	Fabaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
237	Senna uniflora	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
238	Trifolium hybridum	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes abserratus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
239	Trifolium pratense	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
240	Trifolium repens	Fabaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
241	Mucuna sp.	Fabaceae	Yes 	Topomyia pseudobarbus	Other species of mosquitoes	Philippines	Identification	Present	Field	Mogi_1989_165	1989	M. Mogi and I. Miyagi	Sugar Feeding of Topomyia pseudobarbus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Nature	Journal of Medical Entomology	26 (4)	370-371	10.1093/jmedent/26.4.370	"Both sexes of T. pseudobarbus adults were observed in an opening in the rain forest of Mt. Apo, Philippines, to feed on the sprouts of broad-leaved trees, young leaves of Mucuna sp. (Leguminosae), Psidium guajava (Myrtaceae) and unidentified broad-leaved trees, and wounds made on leaves of a herbaceous plant by caterpillars (larvae of the lymantriid Dasychira sp.). Plant sugar from extrafloral nectaries was considered to be the main energy source for the species in the study area. Usually a large ant (Polyrhachis mindanaensis) and a small fly (Chloropidae) were present at the same sugar sources."
242	Cassia fasciculata	Fabaceae	Yes 	Psorophora ferox	Other species of mosquitoes	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Burkett_1999_167	1999	"D. A. Burkett, D. A. Carlson and D. L. Kline"	Sugar meal composition of five north central Florida mosquito species (Diptera: Culicidae) as determined by gas chromatography	Journal of Medical Entomology	36 (4)	462-467	10.1093/jmedent/36.4.462	"Gas chromatography was used to analyze sugars found in individual crops fed on by wild caught adult Anopheles quadrimaculatus s.l. (Say), Coquillettidia perturbans (Walker), Culex nigripalpus Theobald, Culiseta melanura (Coquillett), and Psorophora ferox (von Humboldt) from several north central Florida locations. A wide range of sugars was found, including fructose, glucose, sucrose, maltose, turanose, melezitose, trehalose, raffinose, erlose, and traces of arabinose, rhamnose, and several unknowns. The frequency of individuals testing positive for crop sugars ranged from 9-10% in An. quadrimaculatus and Ps. ferox to 46% in Cq. perturbans. Based on the presence of melezitose or erlose in the crop, honeydew feeding was shown to be an important dietary component in An. quadrimaculatus (57%), Cs. melanura (31%), Cx. nigripalpus (15%). Cq. perturbans (10%), and Ps. ferox (7%). Gas chromatography of crude crop contents is a rapid one-step process that can address important questions such as the source and occurrence of sugar feeding in Diptera. Unique sugar feeding field observations were recorded for several mosquito species."
243	Cassia fasciculata	Fabaceae	Yes 	Uranotaenia sapphirina	Other species of mosquitoes	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Burkett_1999_167	1999	"D. A. Burkett, D. A. Carlson and D. L. Kline"	Sugar meal composition of five north central Florida mosquito species (Diptera: Culicidae) as determined by gas chromatography	Journal of Medical Entomology	36 (4)	462-467	10.1093/jmedent/36.4.462	"Gas chromatography was used to analyze sugars found in individual crops fed on by wild caught adult Anopheles quadrimaculatus s.l. (Say), Coquillettidia perturbans (Walker), Culex nigripalpus Theobald, Culiseta melanura (Coquillett), and Psorophora ferox (von Humboldt) from several north central Florida locations. A wide range of sugars was found, including fructose, glucose, sucrose, maltose, turanose, melezitose, trehalose, raffinose, erlose, and traces of arabinose, rhamnose, and several unknowns. The frequency of individuals testing positive for crop sugars ranged from 9-10% in An. quadrimaculatus and Ps. ferox to 46% in Cq. perturbans. Based on the presence of melezitose or erlose in the crop, honeydew feeding was shown to be an important dietary component in An. quadrimaculatus (57%), Cs. melanura (31%), Cx. nigripalpus (15%). Cq. perturbans (10%), and Ps. ferox (7%). Gas chromatography of crude crop contents is a rapid one-step process that can address important questions such as the source and occurrence of sugar feeding in Diptera. Unique sugar feeding field observations were recorded for several mosquito species."
244	Ribes americanum	Grossulariaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
245	Parnassia caucasicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
246	Philadelphus californicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
247	Philadelphus californicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
248	Philadelphus caucasicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
249	Philadelphus coronarius	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
250	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Culex annulioris	Other Culex species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
251	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Culex insignis	Other Culex species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
252	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Culex subrima	Other Culex species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
253	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Aedes africanus	Other Aedes species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
254	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Aedes apicoargenteus	Other Aedes species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
255	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Aedes paludis	Other Aedes species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
256	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes 	Aedes ingrami	Other Aedes species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
257	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Eretmapodites spp.	Other species of mosquitoes	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
258	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Ficalbia sp.	Other species of mosquitoes	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
259	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia africana	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
260	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia aurites	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
261	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia fuscopennata	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
262	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia maculipennis	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
263	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia pseudoconopas	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
264	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia uniformis	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
265	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes	Mansonia metallica	Mansonia species	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
266	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes 	Toxorhynchites spp.	Other species of mosquitoes	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
267	Harungana madagascariensis	Hypericaceae	Yes 	Uranotaenia spp.	Other species of mosquitoes	Uganda	Identification	Present	Field 	McCrae_1969_227	1969	"A. W. R. McCrae, Y. Ssenkubuge, P. Manuma, C. Mawejje, A. Kitama"	Mosquito and tabanid activity at plant sugar sources	Report of the East African Virus Research Institute	18	96-102		"Studies of the activity of biting arthropods at plant sugar sources werc continued at the Zika forest from ]anuary to August, 1968. Two outstandingly productive 2 hour catches-made from the howers of Harungana in July, yielding 4,003 mosquioes and tabanids, have permitted activity graphs to be drawn up for many species. "
268	Juncus arabicus	Juncaceae	Yes	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Egypt	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Abdel-Malek_1964_226	1964	A. A. Abdel-Malek	Study of the feeding habits of male Anopheles sergentii Theo. at Sixa oasis using radiophosphorus 	Bulletin of the World Health Organization	30 (1)	137-139		"The development of resistance to insecticides by numerous species of mosquitos has focused attention on the need for supplementary and alternative control procedures. Assessments are thus now being made of the potentialities of various types of ecological control, and in this connexion a need has been felt for more specific information in the neg- lected area of the feeding habits of male mosquitos innature.
Specificity of plant feeding having recently been demonstrated for the males of four species of Aedes in Canada,a the present WHO-sponsored study was designed to investigate the suitability of the various plants of an ecologically isolated habitat as food for male Anopheles sergenti Theo. and the natural feeding habits of these insects. The project was undertaken at Siwa Oasis, from 19 May to 28 June 1963."
269	Leonotis nepetifolia	Lamiaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
270	Leonotis nepetifolia	Lamiaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nyasembe_2021_247	2021	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, M. N. Muturi, M. P. Njeri, Pirk, C. W. W., C. L. Sole, B. Torto"	Plant nutrient quality impacts survival and reproductive fitness of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti	Parasites & Vectors	14 (1)	4	10.1186/s13071-020-04519-y	"In a recent study using DNA barcoding, we identified the plants fed upon by four Afro-tropical mosquito species that vector dengue, malaria, and Rift Valley fever. Herein, we have expanded on this study by investigating the role of three of the plants, Pithecellobium dulce (Fabaceae), Leonotis nepetifolia (Lamiaceae), and Opuntia ficus-indica (Cactaceae), on the survival, fecundity, and egg viability of the dengue vector Aedes aegypti."
271	Nepeta cataria	Lamiaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
272	"Vitex agnus-castus 
"	Lamiaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
273	Lilium regale	Liliaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
274	Lilium regale	Liliaceae	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
275	Galphimia gracilis	Malpighiaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field_Lab	Sissoko_2019_71	2019	"F. Sissoko, A. Junnila, M. M. Traore, S. F. Traore, S. Doumbia, S. M. Dembele, Y. Schlein, A. S. Traore, P. Gergely, R. D. Xue, K. L. Arheart, E. E. Revay, V. D. Kravchenko, J. C. Beier and G. C. Müller"	"Frequent sugar feeding behavior by Aedes aegypti in Bamako, Mali makes them ideal candidates for control with attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB)"	PLoS ONE	14 (6)		10.1371/journal.pone.0214170	"Background: Current tools and strategies are not sufficient to reliably address threats and outbreaks of arboviruses including Zika, dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever. Hence there is a growing public health challenge to identify the best new control tools to use against the vector Aedes aegypti. In this study, we investigated Ae. aegypti sugar feeding strategies in Bamako, Mali, to determine if this species can be controlled effectively using attractive toxic sugar baits (ATSB). Methodology We determined the relative attraction of Ae. aegypti males and females to a variety of sugar sources including flowers, fruits, seedpods, and honeydew in the laboratory and using plant-baited traps in the field. Next, we observed the rhythm of blood feeding versus sugar feeding activity of Ae. aegypti in vegetation and in open areas. Finally, we studied the effectiveness of spraying vegetation with ATSB on Ae. aegypti in sugar rich (lush vegetation) and in sugar poor (sparse vegetation) urban environments. Principal findings Male and female laboratory sugar feeding rates within 24 h, on 8 of 16 plants offered were over 80%. The survival rates of mosquitoes on several plant sources were nearly as long as that of controls maintained on sucrose solution. In the field, females were highly attracted to 11 of 20 sugar sources, and 8 of these were attractive to males. Peak periods of host attraction for blood-feeding and sugar feeding in open areas were nearly identical and occurred shortly after sunrise and around sunset. In shaded areas, the first sugar-seeking peak occurred between 11:30 and 12:30 while the second was from 16:30 to 17:30. In a 50-day field trial, ATSB significantly reduced mean numbers of landing / biting female Ae. aegypti in the two types of vegetation. At sugar poor sites, the mean pre-treatment catch of 20.51 females on day 14 was reduced 70-fold to 0.29 on day 50. At sugar rich sites, the mean pretreatment catch of 32.46 females on day 14 was reduced 10-fold to a mean of 3.20 females on day 50. Conclusions This is the first study to show how the vector Ae. aegypti depends on environmental resources of sugar for feeding and survival. The demonstration that Ae. aegypti populations rapidly collapsed after ATSB treatment, in both sugar rich and sugar poor environments, is strong evidence that Ae. aegypti is sugar-feeding frequently. Indeed, this study clearly demonstrates that Ae. aegypti mosquitoes depend on natural sugar resources, and a promising new method for vector control, ATSB, can be highly effective in the fight against Aedes-transmitted diseases."
276	Hibiscus heterophyllus	Malvaceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	Kenya	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Nyasembe_2018_75	2018	"V. O. Nyasembe, D. P. Tchouassi, C. W. W. Pirk, C. L. Sole and B. Torto"	Host plant forensics and olfactory-based detection in Afro-tropical mosquito disease vectors	PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases	12 (2)	e0006185	10.1371/journal.pntd.0006185	"The global spread of vector-borne diseases remains a worrying public health threat, raising the need for development of new combat strategies for vector control. Knowledge of vector ecology can be exploited in this regard, including plant feeding; a critical resource that mosquitoes of both sexes rely on for survival and other metabolic processes. However, the identity of plant species mosquitoes feed on in nature remains largely unknown. By testing the hypothesis about selectivity in plant feeding, we employed a DNA-based approach targeting trnH-psbA and matK genes and identified host plants of field-collected Afro-tropical mosquito vectors of dengue, Rift Valley fever and malaria being among the most important mosquito-borne diseases in East Africa. These included three plant species for Aedes aegypti (dengue), two for both Aedes mcintoshi and Aedes ochraceus (Rift Valley fever) and five for Anopheles gambiae (malaria). Since plant feeding is mediated by olfactory cues, we further sought to identify specific odor signatures that may modulate host plant location. Using coupled gas chromatography (GC)-electroantennographic detection, GC/mass spectrometry and electroantennogram analyses, we identified a total of 21 antennally-active components variably detected by Ae. aegypti, Ae. mcintoshi and An. gambiae from their respective host plants. Whereas Ae. aegypti predominantly detected benzenoids, Ae. mcintoshi detected mainly aldehydes while An. gambiae detected sesquiterpenes and alkenes. Interestingly, the monoterpenes _-myrcene and (E)-_-ocimene were consistently detected by all the mosquito species and present in all the identified host plants, suggesting that they may serve as signature cues in plant location. This study highlights the utility of molecular approaches in identifying specific vector-plant associations, which can be exploited in maximizing control strategies such as such as attractive toxic sugar bait and odor-bait technology."
277	Malva neglecta	Malvaceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
278	Malva neglecta	Malvaceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
279	Psidium guajava	Myrtaceae	Yes 	Topomyia pseudobarbus	Other species of mosquitoes	Philippines	Identification	Present	Field	Mogi_1989_165	1989	M. Mogi and I. Miyagi	Sugar Feeding of Topomyia pseudobarbus (Diptera: Culicidae) in Nature	Journal of Medical Entomology	26 (4)	370-371	10.1093/jmedent/26.4.370	"Both sexes of T. pseudobarbus adults were observed in an opening in the rain forest of Mt. Apo, Philippines, to feed on the sprouts of broad-leaved trees, young leaves of Mucuna sp. (Leguminosae), Psidium guajava (Myrtaceae) and unidentified broad-leaved trees, and wounds made on leaves of a herbaceous plant by caterpillars (larvae of the lymantriid Dasychira sp.). Plant sugar from extrafloral nectaries was considered to be the main energy source for the species in the study area. Usually a large ant (Polyrhachis mindanaensis) and a small fly (Chloropidae) were present at the same sugar sources."
280	Nepenthes mirabili	Nepenthaceae	Yes	Culicidae	Other species of mosquitoes	China	Identification	Characteristics	Field_Lab	Hua_2005_70	2005	Y. J. Hua and H. Q. Li	"Food web and fluid in pitchers of Nepenthes mirabilis in Zhuhai, China"	Acta Botanica Gallica	152 (2)	165-175	10.1080/12538078.2005.10515467	"Here we report a complex food web and special fluid properties in pitchers of Nepenthes mirabilis in Zhuhai, Guangdong Province, China. It attracts ants and flying insects with floral and exrafloral nectaries, color of pitcher and flower, and possibly flower odor. Its slippery rim and collar trap preys, but some wasps can hold legs on the outside of the rim. Its preys include arthropods in four classes (with nine orders in insect class), plus very few snails and lizards. Fresh fluid sinks, kills, and digests preys (including lizards) quickly, but allows flogs to live in; while old fluid allows mosquitoes to hatch in it. Fluid reaches its maximum amount at pitcher opening. Then, the pH decreases gradually from 6 to 1.9, as the color changes slowly from colorless to yellow, and finally both pH and color reverse as pitchers dying. Proteinase nepenthesins could be resulted in these special conditions through long evolutionary adaptation."
281	Ligustrum quihoui 	Oleaceae	Yes	Culex pipiens pallens	Culex pipiens pallens	China	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab	Yu_2018_62	2018	"B. T. Yu, Y. Hu, Y. M. Ding, J. X. Tian and J. C. Mo"	Feeding on different attractive flowering plants affects the energy reserves of Culex pipiens pallens adults	Parasitology Research	117 (1)	67-73	10.1007/s00436-017-5664-y	"Mosquito adults usually need to ingest sugar from nectar host plants to sustain their metabolic needs. Mosquitoes could be differentially attracted by various flowering plant species, and the volatiles were thought to be important factors attributed to the differential attractiveness. However, whether mosquitoes' preference for host plants correlates with their nutritional rewards from sugar sources remains unclear. In the present study, the preference of newly emerged Culex pipiens pallens to three kinds of flowering plants (Ligustrum quihoui, Abelia chinensis, and Nerium indicum) was determined in the olfactometer. Besides, when the newly emerged mosquitoes were provided with these flowering plants as sugar sources, the content of their metabolic reserves (glycogen, lipid, and protein) was determined. The results revealed that Cx. pipiens pallens could be differentially attracted by the odors emitted by the inflorescences of the tested flowering plants, and the nutritional rewards of mosquitoes were significantly affected by feeding on different inflorescences. The present study demonstrated that feeding on nectar host plants with differential attraction could affect the energy reserves of Cx. pipiens pallens."
282	Syringa reticulata	Oleaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
283	Syringa reticulata	Oleaceae	Yes	Aedes fitchii	Aedes fitchii	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
284	Syringa vulgaris	Oleaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
285	Syringa reticulata	Oleaceae	Yes	Mansonia perturbans	Mansonia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
286	Syringa reticulata	Oleaceae	Yes	Culiseta inornata	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
287	Epipactis helleborine	Orchidaceae	Yes	Culicidae	Other species of mosquitoes	Poland	Identification	Characteristics	Field	Rewicz_2017_145	2017	"A. Rewicz,  R. Jasku_a,, T. Rewicz, G. To_czyk,"	Pollinator diversity and reproductive success of Epipactis helleborine (L.) Crantz (Orchidaceae) in anthropogenic and natural habitats	PeerJ		2167-8359 	10.7717/peerj.3159	"Background. Epipactis helleborine is an Eurasian orchid species which prefers woodland environments but it may also spontaneously and successfully colonise human-made artificial and disturbed habitats such as roadsides, town parks and gardens. It is suggested that orchids colonising anthropogenic habitats are characterised by a specific set of features (e.g., large plant size, fast flower production). However, as it is not well known how pollinator diversity and reproductive success of E. helleborine differs in populations in anthropogenic habitats compared to populations from natural habitats, we wanted to compare pollinator diversity and reproductive success of this orchid species between natural and anthropogenic habitat types. Methods. Pollination biology, reproductive success and autogamy in populations of E. helleborine from anthropogenic (roadside) and natural (forest) habitats were compared. Eight populations (four natural and four human-disturbed ones) in two seasons were studied according to height of plants, length of inflorescences, as well as numbers of juvenile shoots, flowering shoots, flowers, and fruits. The number and diversity of insect pollinators were studied in one natural and two human-disturbed populations. Results. Reproductive success (the ratio of the number of flowers to the number of fruits) in the populations from anthropogenic habitats was significantly higher than in the natural habitats. Moreover, plants from anthropogenic habitats were larger than those from natural ones. In both types of populations, the main insect pollinators were Syrphidae, Culicidae, Vespidae, Apidae and Formicidae. With respect to the type of pollinators' mouth-parts, chewing (39%), sponging (34%) and chewing-sucking (20%) pollinators prevailed in anthropogenic habitats. In natural habitats, pollinators with sponging (55%) and chewing mouth-parts (32%) dominated, while chewing-sucking and piercing-sucking insects accounted for 9% and 4% respectively. Discussion. We suggest that higher reproductive success of E. helleborine in the populations from anthropogenic habitats than in the populations from natural habitats may result from a higher number of visits by pollinators and their greater species diversity, but also from the larger size of plants growing in such habitats. Moreover, our data clearly show that E. helleborine is an opportunistic species with respect to pollinators, with a wide spectrum of pollinating insects. Summarising, E. helleborine is a rare example of orchid species whose current range is not declining. Its ability to make use of anthropogenically altered habitats has allowed its significant spatial range expansion, and even successful colonisation of North America."
288	Habenaria obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes nigripes	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field	Twinn_1948_5	1948	C. R. Twinn and B. Hocking	"A preliminary account of the biting flies at Churchill, Manitoba"	Canadian journal of research	26 (6) 	334-357	10.1139/cjr48d-025	"The authors recorded the occurrence of five genera and 11 species of Culicidae, two genera and 12 species of Simuliidae (three and perhaps four of which may be new) and two genera and ten species of Tabanidae. Data were given on their habitats, life histories, habits, species association, and relative abundance and distribution. Mention was made on the status as pests of these insects and their influence on human activities in the locality. Evidence was presented that female mosquitoes feed on nectar and are efficient pollinators of northern orchids."
289	Habenaria obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes excrucians	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field	Twinn_1948_5	1948	C. R. Twinn and B. Hocking	"A preliminary account of the biting flies at Churchill, Manitoba"	Canadian journal of research	26 (6) 	334-357	10.1139/cjr48d-025	"The authors recorded the occurrence of five genera and 11 species of Culicidae, two genera and 12 species of Simuliidae (three and perhaps four of which may be new) and two genera and ten species of Tabanidae. Data were given on their habitats, life histories, habits, species association, and relative abundance and distribution. Mention was made on the status as pests of these insects and their influence on human activities in the locality. Evidence was presented that female mosquitoes feed on nectar and are efficient pollinators of northern orchids."
290	Habenaria obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes punctor	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field	Twinn_1948_5	1948	C. R. Twinn and B. Hocking	"A preliminary account of the biting flies at Churchill, Manitoba"	Canadian journal of research	26 (6) 	334-357	10.1139/cjr48d-025	"The authors recorded the occurrence of five genera and 11 species of Culicidae, two genera and 12 species of Simuliidae (three and perhaps four of which may be new) and two genera and ten species of Tabanidae. Data were given on their habitats, life histories, habits, species association, and relative abundance and distribution. Mention was made on the status as pests of these insects and their influence on human activities in the locality. Evidence was presented that female mosquitoes feed on nectar and are efficient pollinators of northern orchids."
291	Habenaria obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes cinereus	Aedes cinereus	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field	Twinn_1948_5	1948	C. R. Twinn and B. Hocking	"A preliminary account of the biting flies at Churchill, Manitoba"	Canadian journal of research	26 (6) 	334-357	10.1139/cjr48d-025	"The authors recorded the occurrence of five genera and 11 species of Culicidae, two genera and 12 species of Simuliidae (three and perhaps four of which may be new) and two genera and ten species of Tabanidae. Data were given on their habitats, life histories, habits, species association, and relative abundance and distribution. Mention was made on the status as pests of these insects and their influence on human activities in the locality. Evidence was presented that female mosquitoes feed on nectar and are efficient pollinators of northern orchids."
292	Platanthera obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes communis 	Aedes communis 	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Thien_1970_230	1970	L. B. Thien and F. Utech	The mode of pollination in Habenaria obtusata (Orchidaceae) 	American Journal of Botany	57 (9)	1031-1035	10.1002/j.1537-2197.1970.tb09905.x	"The role of mosquitoes and moths as pollinators of Habenaria obtusata was studied in northern Wisconsin during the summer of 1969. In each population studied, meter-square quadrants were marked and the number of plants, flowers per inflorescence, rate and time of pollinia removed, and capsule set recorded. Carbon dioxide and modified New Jersey Light Traps were set during the flowering period to capture pollinia-bearing insects. The study showed that female mosquitoes of the genus Aedes (particularly A. communis) and two species of Geometrid moths of the genus Xanthorhoe are important pollinators of H. obtusata. Pollination occurred during the last few days of flowering with an average of 18.0% of the pollinia removed and with 14.2% capsule set."
293	Platanthera obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Thien_1970_230	1970	L. B. Thien and F. Utech	The mode of pollination in Habenaria obtusata (Orchidaceae) 	American Journal of Botany	57 (9)	1031-1035	10.1002/j.1537-2197.1970.tb09905.x	"The role of mosquitoes and moths as pollinators of Habenaria obtusata was studied in northern Wisconsin during the summer of 1969. In each population studied, meter-square quadrants were marked and the number of plants, flowers per inflorescence, rate and time of pollinia removed, and capsule set recorded. Carbon dioxide and modified New Jersey Light Traps were set during the flowering period to capture pollinia-bearing insects. The study showed that female mosquitoes of the genus Aedes (particularly A. communis) and two species of Geometrid moths of the genus Xanthorhoe are important pollinators of H. obtusata. Pollination occurred during the last few days of flowering with an average of 18.0% of the pollinia removed and with 14.2% capsule set."
294	Platanthera obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes punctor	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Thien_1970_230	1970	L. B. Thien and F. Utech	The mode of pollination in Habenaria obtusata (Orchidaceae) 	American Journal of Botany	57 (9)	1031-1035	10.1002/j.1537-2197.1970.tb09905.x	"The role of mosquitoes and moths as pollinators of Habenaria obtusata was studied in northern Wisconsin during the summer of 1969. In each population studied, meter-square quadrants were marked and the number of plants, flowers per inflorescence, rate and time of pollinia removed, and capsule set recorded. Carbon dioxide and modified New Jersey Light Traps were set during the flowering period to capture pollinia-bearing insects. The study showed that female mosquitoes of the genus Aedes (particularly A. communis) and two species of Geometrid moths of the genus Xanthorhoe are important pollinators of H. obtusata. Pollination occurred during the last few days of flowering with an average of 18.0% of the pollinia removed and with 14.2% capsule set."
295	Platanthera obtusata	Orchidaceae	Yes	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Thien_1970_230	1970	L. B. Thien and F. Utech	The mode of pollination in Habenaria obtusata (Orchidaceae) 	American Journal of Botany	57 (9)	1031-1035	10.1002/j.1537-2197.1970.tb09905.x	"The role of mosquitoes and moths as pollinators of Habenaria obtusata was studied in northern Wisconsin during the summer of 1969. In each population studied, meter-square quadrants were marked and the number of plants, flowers per inflorescence, rate and time of pollinia removed, and capsule set recorded. Carbon dioxide and modified New Jersey Light Traps were set during the flowering period to capture pollinia-bearing insects. The study showed that female mosquitoes of the genus Aedes (particularly A. communis) and two species of Geometrid moths of the genus Xanthorhoe are important pollinators of H. obtusata. Pollination occurred during the last few days of flowering with an average of 18.0% of the pollinia removed and with 14.2% capsule set."
296	Gerardia maritima	Orobanchaceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
297	Passiflora edulis	Passifloraceae	Yes	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
298	Passiflora edulis	Passifloraceae	Yes	Aedes aegypti	Aedes aegypti	US 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Chen_2015_110	2015	Z. Y. Chen and C. M. Kearney	Nectar protein content and attractiveness to Aedes aegypti and Culex pipiens in plants with nectar/insect associations	Acta Tropica	146	81-88	10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.010	"We chose five easily propagated garden plants previously shown to be attractive to mosquitoes, ants or other insects and tested them for attractiveness to Culex pipiens and Aedes aegypti. Long term imbibition was tested by survival on each plant species. Both mosquito species survived best on Impatiens walleriana, the common garden impatiens, followed by Asclepias curassavica, Campsis radicans and Passiflora edulis, which sponsored survival as well as the 10% sucrose control. Immediate preference for imbibition was tested with nectar dyed in situ on each plant. In addition, competition studies were performed with one dyed plant species in the presence of five undyed plant species to simulate a garden setting. In both preference studies I. walleriana proved superior. Nectar from all plants was then screened for nectar protein content by SDS–PAGE, with great variability being found between species, but with I. walleriana producing the highest levels. The data suggest that I. walleriana may have value as a model plant for subsequent studies exploring nectar delivery of transgenic mosquitocidal proteins."
299	Phlox paniculata	Polemoniaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
300	Phlox paniculata	Polemoniaceae	Yes	Aedes dorsalis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
301	Phlox paniculata	Polemoniaceae	Yes	Aedes trivittatus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
302	Polygonum baldchuanicum	Polygonaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
303	Polygonum equisetiforme	Polygonaceae	Yes 	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Israel	Applications	Present	Field	Schlein_2008_13	2008	Y. Schlein and G. C. Müller	An approach to mosquito control: Using the dominant attraction of flowering Tamarix jordanis trees against Culex pipiens	Journal of Medical Entomology	45 (3)	384-390	10.1093/jmedent/45.3.384	"In this study, we identified blossoms that attract Culex pipiens L. s.l. in a Mediterranean habitat by using branches of 26 common plant species as baits for traps. The highest catch, 60.5% of the total, by flowers of Tamarix jordanis Boiss., was ≈6 times greater than the 10.7% caught by flowering Polygonum equisetiforme Sm., and 10 times higher than the 6.6% caught by flowers of Acacia saligna (Lindle) H. L. Wendl. The catch elicited by the other plants ranged between 4.0 and 0.1%. Plant attraction also was evaluated in a field situation. Experimental and control sites were similar strips of vegetation along water channels with T. jordanis trees in the center. In the experimental site, these trees were sprayed with sucrose solution, food dye, and oral insecticide (Spinosad). Concurrently, patches of plant species and trees in the control site were sprayed with solutions of sucrose and different food dye markers. Cx. pipiens populations in both sites were monitored. The highest proportion (65.2%) of the marked mosquitoes in the control site carried the dye of flowering T. jordanis. The dye of flowering P. equisetiforme and that of A. saligna were found, respectively, in 8.1 and 3.5% of the labeled mosquitoes. The marker of reed groups (Phragmites australis [Cav.] Steudel) above the water was found in 19.4% of mosquitoes, whereas the different marker of dry land reeds was found in only 0.4% of the labeled mosquitoes. In the experimental site, after treatment, the mosquitoes decreased from ≈255 per trap to ≈24 mosquitoes per trap, whereas the catch in the control site reached ≈400 mosquitoes per trap."
304	Polygonum equisetiforme	Polygonaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
305	Actaea pachypoda	Ranunculaceae	High	Aedes stimulans	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
306	Actaea pachypoda	Ranunculaceae	High	Aedes canadensis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Magnarelli_1983_113	1983	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Sugars and Caloric Reserves in Natural Populations of Aedes canadensis and Aedes stimulans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Environmental Entomology	12 (5)	1482-1486	10.1093/ee/12.5.1482	"Adults of Aedes canadensis (Theo.) and A. stimulans (Wlk.) probed the flowers of 7 species of plants in woods in Connecticut. Of 217 males and females collected, 73.3% were sighted between 1700 and 1930 h. An anthrone agent detected fructose or sucrose in 45.1-53.2% of newly emerged adults and blood-seeking females collected between 0930 and 1930 h. Sugar positivity rates peaked for both species (53.7-63.6%) between 1700 and 1930 h, a time when most mosquitoes were observed on blossoms. Average amounts of total energy reserves, determined by bichromate and spectrophotometric assays, were greater in blood-seeking females of A. stimulans (mean range 6.2-11.4 cal/female) than in both sexes up to 12 h old (0.8-2.7 cal/insect). The presence of fructose or sucrose in newly emerged mosquitoes reinforces the importance of these sugars for survival early in adult life."
307	Actaea rubra	Ranunculaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
308	Ranunculus aboritus	Ranunculaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
309	Ochradenus baccatus	Resedaceae	Yes 	Anopheles sergentii 	Anopheles sergentii 	Israel	Applications	"Present, Characteristics"	Field	Müller_2006_168	2006	G. Müller and Y. Schlein	Sugar questing mosquitoes in arid areas gather on scarce blossoms that can be used for control	International Journal for Parasitology	36 (10)	1077-1080	10.1016/j.ijpara.2006.06.008	"Floral nectar sugars provide energy for mosquito activities. We presumed that scarce flowering trees in arid areas are attractive, central sugar sources and tested the assumption in the southern desert of Israel. In traps baited with flowers of Acacia raddiana, Tamarix nilotica or Ochradenus baccatus the catch of Anopheles sergentii was _35–75 times greater than with baits of flowerless branches. At a small isolated oasis, a spray of sugar and food-dye solution on the few flowering A. raddiana trees dye-labelled 80–90% of A. sergentii. At a similar oasis, this spray with addition of oral insecticide, virtually eliminated the local mosquitoes."
310	Ochradenus baccatus	Resedaceae	Yes 	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Israel	Identification	Previously studied	Lab	Junnila_2010_160	2010	"A. Junnila, G. C. Muller and Y. Schlein, "	Species identification of plant tissues from the gut of An. sergentii by DNA analysis	Acta Tropica	115 (3)	227-233	10.1016/j.actatropica.2010.04.002	"There are three commonly used assays to identify plant material in insect guts: the cold anthrone test for fructose, the cellulose staining test for visualizing plant tissue and gas chromatography for seeking unique sugar content profiles. Though sugar and cellulose tests can distinguish between the general sources of sugar meal (nectar versus tissue), they cannot identify the species of plant sources. Even gas chromatography profiles can be problematic; there are reported instances of intra-specific variation as well as inter-specific and intergeneric variation that can mar results. Here, we explore the potential for DNA analysis to help resolve this issue. First, Anopheles sergentii were exposed to branches of two species of highly attractive flowering bushes in the laboratory and the great majority (_90–98%) were positive for sugar from nectar while very few were positive for cellulose (_0.5–8%) and DNA (6–19%). Moreover, laboratory An. sergentii showed opposing preferences, tending to obtain sugar from nectar of one plant (Tamarix nilotica) but to feed more on tissue from the other (Ochradenus baccatus). An. sergentii are exposed to a wide variety of plants in their natural desert habitats and in the absence of flowers in the dry season, they resort to feeding specifically on tissues of a few plants. According to DNA analysis the favorite plants were Suaeda asphaltica, Malva nicaeensis and Conyza dioscoridis, which are succulents that account for less than 1% of vegetation in the area."
311	Rhamnus cathartica	Rhamnaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
312	Ziziphus mauritiana 	Rhamnaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Mali	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2010_65	2010	"G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Müller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia, Y. Schlein, G. C. Muller, J. C. Beier, S. F. Traore, M. B. Toure, M. M. Traore, S. Bah, S. Doumbia and Y. Schlein"	Field experiments of Anopheles gambiae attraction to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants in Mali to optimize strategies for malaria vector control in Africa using attractive toxic sugar bait methods	Malaria Journal	9 (1)	262	10.1186/1475-2875-9-262	"BACKGROUND: Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. METHODS: Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. RESULTS: Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. CONCLUSION: These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control."
313	Ziziphus spina-christi	Rhamnaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
314	Amelanchier sanguinea	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
315	Crataegus corusca	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
316	Crataegus punctata	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
317	Crataegus scabrida	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
318	Dryas integrifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes impiger 	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field 	Corbet_1964_28	1964	P. S. Corbet	Autogeny and oviposition in arctic mosquitoes	Nature	203 (4945)	669-669	10.1038/203669a0	"Two species of mosquito, Aedes impiger (Wlk.) and A. nigripes (Zett.), occur at Lake Hazen, northern Ellesmere Island, within 100 miles of the most northerly locality at which mosquitos are known to exist in Canada. The larval habitats are temporary and permanent pools, and the adults of both sexes take nectar from the flowers of Dryas integrifolia, the most widespread flowering plant. Between late June and the middle of August, when the adults are flying, about 19 species of birds and eight species of mammals exist in the area, though at a relatively low density. The female mosquitos emerge with ovaries in stages I-II of Christophers [R.A.E., B 29 93], and usually seek a blood-meal in stage II after having mated. Both nulliparous and parous females complete ovarian development about a week after engorgement. The former can also do so in about the same time with the nectar or a 15 per cent. sugar solution as their only source of food; such females, with the exception of those of A. nigripes maintained on sugar, also oviposited, but ovarian development was attended by extensive degeneration of oocytes, which greatly reduced fecundity. Females maintained with access to Dryas flowers or sugar survived as long as 37 days, whereas females maintained solely on demineralised water survived only 20 days or less, and their ovaries did not develop beyond stage II, nor did any oocytes degenerate. When mixed nulliparous and parous females that had punctured human skin were allowed to engorge or were removed within 5 seconds (presumably before they had ingested blood), both groups being then maintained with access to Dryas flowers and sugar, ovarian development was completed in all females that were allowed to engorge on blood and in eight out of 25 of A. impiger and 1 out of 14 of A. nigripes that were not. These findings establish the existence of some autogeny in blood-sucking mosquitos in arctic North America and show that it is associated with decreased fecundity and that nectar or sugar is needed for its manifestation. The pattern of autogeny described may have special adaptive significance in the arctic and subarctic, where populations of potential vertebrate hosts fluctuate widely. It provides for continuity of reproduction in years in which vertebrates are scarce or absent and enables a rich supply of protein in one year to be used to increase the number of adult mosquitos in the next, when, if blood becomes scarce, their greater abundance can compensate for reduced fecundity. Observations on oviposition in A. nigripes showed it to be periodic, although the sun remains continuously above the horizon throughout the season of adult activity. The females oviposit only at sites exposed to the sun's rays at some time between six hours before and nine hours after solar noon; the great majority of the eggs found were in sites exposed to the sun from one hour before noon to one hour after it. If temperature is an important factor in maintaining the implied periodicity, the number of hours during which oviposition takes place may be expected to decrease as the sun's maximum elevation becomes less during July and August. In consequence of the periodicity, oviposition sites have a southern to south-westerly aspect and are therefore usually among the first parts of a pond margin to become free of snow in June, when the overwintered eggs hatch."
319	Dryas integrifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes nigripes	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field	Corbet_1964_28	1964	P. S. Corbet	Autogeny and oviposition in arctic mosquitoes	Nature	203 (4945)	669-669	10.1038/203669a0	"Two species of mosquito, Aedes impiger (Wlk.) and A. nigripes (Zett.), occur at Lake Hazen, northern Ellesmere Island, within 100 miles of the most northerly locality at which mosquitos are known to exist in Canada. The larval habitats are temporary and permanent pools, and the adults of both sexes take nectar from the flowers of Dryas integrifolia, the most widespread flowering plant. Between late June and the middle of August, when the adults are flying, about 19 species of birds and eight species of mammals exist in the area, though at a relatively low density. The female mosquitos emerge with ovaries in stages I-II of Christophers [R.A.E., B 29 93], and usually seek a blood-meal in stage II after having mated. Both nulliparous and parous females complete ovarian development about a week after engorgement. The former can also do so in about the same time with the nectar or a 15 per cent. sugar solution as their only source of food; such females, with the exception of those of A. nigripes maintained on sugar, also oviposited, but ovarian development was attended by extensive degeneration of oocytes, which greatly reduced fecundity. Females maintained with access to Dryas flowers or sugar survived as long as 37 days, whereas females maintained solely on demineralised water survived only 20 days or less, and their ovaries did not develop beyond stage II, nor did any oocytes degenerate. When mixed nulliparous and parous females that had punctured human skin were allowed to engorge or were removed within 5 seconds (presumably before they had ingested blood), both groups being then maintained with access to Dryas flowers and sugar, ovarian development was completed in all females that were allowed to engorge on blood and in eight out of 25 of A. impiger and 1 out of 14 of A. nigripes that were not. These findings establish the existence of some autogeny in blood-sucking mosquitos in arctic North America and show that it is associated with decreased fecundity and that nectar or sugar is needed for its manifestation. The pattern of autogeny described may have special adaptive significance in the arctic and subarctic, where populations of potential vertebrate hosts fluctuate widely. It provides for continuity of reproduction in years in which vertebrates are scarce or absent and enables a rich supply of protein in one year to be used to increase the number of adult mosquitos in the next, when, if blood becomes scarce, their greater abundance can compensate for reduced fecundity. Observations on oviposition in A. nigripes showed it to be periodic, although the sun remains continuously above the horizon throughout the season of adult activity. The females oviposit only at sites exposed to the sun's rays at some time between six hours before and nine hours after solar noon; the great majority of the eggs found were in sites exposed to the sun from one hour before noon to one hour after it. If temperature is an important factor in maintaining the implied periodicity, the number of hours during which oviposition takes place may be expected to decrease as the sun's maximum elevation becomes less during July and August. In consequence of the periodicity, oviposition sites have a southern to south-westerly aspect and are therefore usually among the first parts of a pond margin to become free of snow in June, when the overwintered eggs hatch."
320	Dryas integrifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes impiger 	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Corbet_1967_61	1967	P. S. Corbet	Facultative Autogeny in Arctic Mosquitoes	Nature	215 (5101)	662-663	10.1038/215662a0	"Ovarian development in the mosquitoes Aedes (Ochlerotatus) impiger (Walk.) and A. (O.) nigripes (Zett.) has been studied at Hazen Camp, northern Ellesmere Island (71° 18_ W., 81° 49_ N.), a site only 150 miles south of the northernmost limit of land. Both species seek blood actively and, if able to engorge, use it to mature eggs in the usual way. A factor thought to limit their reproductive success is the low availability of blood, resulting from the scarcity of vertebrates and the prevalence of weather inimical to host-seeking during the brief flying season of the mosquitoes."
321	Dryas integrifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes nigripes	Other Aedes species	Canada 	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Corbet_1967_61	1967	P. S. Corbet	Facultative Autogeny in Arctic Mosquitoes	Nature	215 (5101)	662-663	10.1038/215662a0	"Ovarian development in the mosquitoes Aedes (Ochlerotatus) impiger (Walk.) and A. (O.) nigripes (Zett.) has been studied at Hazen Camp, northern Ellesmere Island (71° 18_ W., 81° 49_ N.), a site only 150 miles south of the northernmost limit of land. Both species seek blood actively and, if able to engorge, use it to mature eggs in the usual way. A factor thought to limit their reproductive success is the low availability of blood, resulting from the scarcity of vertebrates and the prevalence of weather inimical to host-seeking during the brief flying season of the mosquitoes."
322	Physocarpus opulifolius	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes abserratus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
323	Prunus nigra	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
324	Prunus nigra	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Smith_1994_107	1994	S. M. Smith and R. M. Gadawski	Nectar feeding by the early_spring mosquito Aedes provocans	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	8 (3)	201-213	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1994.tb00499.x	"Nectar feeding by males and females of the mosquito Aedes provocans was studied at a site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Canada plum, Prunus nigra, and especially pin cherry, P. pensylvanica, bloomed contemporaneously with the emergence of Ae. provocans and were important nectar sources for adult mosquitoes during their first week of life. Blossoms of P. pensylvanica shielded for 24 h from foragers produced an average of 0.14 mg of sugar (? 2.3 J). This nectar was avidly sought by both sexes of Ae.provocans; > 97% of the blossoms were visited by mosquitoes in the first few days of blooming. Young adult mosquitoes were found on blossoms at all hours of the day and night; feeding on P. nigra was strongly eocrepuscular, whereas on P.pensylvanica feeding was much less strongly periodic. Adults foraged for nectar in an energy-conserving, pedestrian strategy, devoting 56% (females) and 68% (males) of their time on blossoms to nectar feeding during foraging bouts that lasted a median of 5.3min. Both sexes sought nectar soon after emergence - males before they had completed hypopygial rotation or swarmed, and females before mating or host seeking. Female Ae.provocans sought nectar in all stages of oogenesis, but primarily at the initiation of a gonotrophic cycle. Energy stores in the crop averaged 18 J per female, with a distribution that depended on gonotrophic age and parity."
325	Prunus pensylvanica	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes excrucians	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
326	Prunus pensylvanica	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
327	Prunus pensylvanica	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Smith_1994_107	1994	S. M. Smith and R. M. Gadawski	Nectar feeding by the early_spring mosquito Aedes provocans	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	8 (3)	201-213	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1994.tb00499.x	"Nectar feeding by males and females of the mosquito Aedes provocans was studied at a site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Canada plum, Prunus nigra, and especially pin cherry, P. pensylvanica, bloomed contemporaneously with the emergence of Ae. provocans and were important nectar sources for adult mosquitoes during their first week of life. Blossoms of P. pensylvanica shielded for 24 h from foragers produced an average of 0.14 mg of sugar (? 2.3 J). This nectar was avidly sought by both sexes of Ae.provocans; > 97% of the blossoms were visited by mosquitoes in the first few days of blooming. Young adult mosquitoes were found on blossoms at all hours of the day and night; feeding on P. nigra was strongly eocrepuscular, whereas on P.pensylvanica feeding was much less strongly periodic. Adults foraged for nectar in an energy-conserving, pedestrian strategy, devoting 56% (females) and 68% (males) of their time on blossoms to nectar feeding during foraging bouts that lasted a median of 5.3min. Both sexes sought nectar soon after emergence - males before they had completed hypopygial rotation or swarmed, and females before mating or host seeking. Female Ae.provocans sought nectar in all stages of oogenesis, but primarily at the initiation of a gonotrophic cycle. Energy stores in the crop averaged 18 J per female, with a distribution that depended on gonotrophic age and parity."
328	Prunus pensylvanica	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Previously studied	Field_Lab	Smith_1994_178	1994	S. M. Smith and R. M. Kurtz	The age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae) in southwestern Ontario	Great Lakes Entomologist	27 (2)	113-123		"In a previous paper [Journal of Medical Entomology, 29: 879-886 (1992)] it was shown that an eastern-Ontario, Canada, population of the early-spring mosquito A. provocans had an atypical age structure: the adult-female population aged rapidly and synchronously, achieving an advanced gonotrophic age in an unusually brief period of time. The present study examined the age structure of A. provocans near Waterloo, in south-western Ontario, at a site at which adult emergence occurred over a wider, more variable period and at which the preferred nectar sources for young adults were much less abundant. In Waterloo, the adult-female population aged more slowly and much less synchronously than in eastern Ontario. The role of resources, particularly nectar, in leading to delayed aging, is discussed."
329	Prunus serotina	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
330	Prunus virginiana	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
331	Pyrus malus	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
332	Rosa palustris	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes sollicitans	Aedes sollicitans	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1977_105	1977	L. A. Magnarelli	Nectar Feeding by Aedes sollicitans and Its Relation to Gonotrophic Activity	Environmental Entomology	6 (2)	237-242	10.1093/ee/6.2.237	"A 50m2 salt marsh study plot was used to determine relative densities of flowering plants and to directly observe Aedes sollicitans nectar feeding. In addition to 190 flower-visiting mosquitoes (103 _, 87 _), 260 resting and 280 blood-seeking females were collected from the marsh and an inland woodland habitat; specimens were agegraded by the Polovodova method and analyzed for fructose by an anthrone test. There were no significant differences in nectar feeding rates between sexes. Newly-emerged and recently-oviposited mosquitoes nectar-fed from Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod), Achillea millefolium (yarrow), Hieracium pratense (king-devil hawkweed), and Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (ox-eye daisy) both at times when these plant hosts were at high and very low relative densities. Mosquito avoidance of other dominant blooming plant species and their selection of plants having lighter-colored flowers suggests that there may be preferences for certain plant hosts. Females nectar fed in all phases of the gonotrophic cycle, but there was a significantly higher rate of recent nectar feeding among females in the salt marsh (avg. 60% positive) than in woodlands (avg. 11%). Greater nectar-feeding activity in salt marshes is probably indicative of the female's need for simple sugars before dispersing inland and/or that nectar sources were more plentiful"
333	Rosa palustris 	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes cantator	Aedes cantator	US 	Identification	Present	Field_Lab	Magnarelli_1978_33	1978	L. A. Magnarelli	"Bionomics of the Salt-Marsh Mosquito, Aedes cantator (Diptera: Culicidae) 1"	Environmental Entomology	7 (4)	512-517	10.1093/ee/7.4.512	"The bionomics of Aedes cantator (Coq.) were investigated under laboratory and field conditions in Connecticut. Less than 2% of the females reared from larvae and pupae under specified laboratory conditions matured eggs in the absence of vertebrate blood; limited autogeny occurred in early season broods. Anautogenous fecundity was significantly greater than autogenous egg production. Nearly half of the 455 resting and host-seeking females examined had not yet completed an ovarian cycle (42.4% nulliparous), and of the 198 parous females collected, only 7 (1.5%) survived the fourth gonotrophic cycle and initiated the fifth.A 50-m2 salt-marsh study plot was used to observe A. cantator on plants in flower. Chrysanthemum leucanthemum, Malva neglecta, Achillea millefolium, Rosa palustris, Hieracium pratense, carrot and Solidago sempervirens served as nectar sources for 449 adults. During July, Aedes cantator changed its preference from C. leucanthemum to Achillea millefolium and H. pratense. Of a total 1633 females analysed for nectar sugars by either anthrone or thin-layer chromatography, more than 50% contained one or more of the primary nectar sugars. Significantly more females contained nectar sugars in the salt marsh (mean 57% positive) than females from inland forests (mean 19.6%). Results indicate that males and females frequently feed on nectar in the marsh and thereby supplement their stored nutritional reserves before dispersal."
334	Rosa rugosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
335	Rosa rugosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes fitchii	Aedes fitchii	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
336	Rubus chamaemorus	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes communis	Aedes communis	Sweden	Identification 	Present	Field_Lab	Andersson_1990_104	1990	I. H. Andersson	"Nectar feeding activity of Aedes mosquitoes, with special reference to Aedes communis females"	Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association	6 (3)	482 - 489		"A total of 5,721 mosquitoes (6% males) of 16 species were collected with an aerial net, when attracted to the investigator, during May-August 1984 at 2 sites in central Sweden. The majority of the mosquitoes collected (63%) were Aedes communis. Aedes communis females at both localities showed peak flight activity at evening twilight. At one site, a diel pattern of nectar feeding was correlated with host seeking activity; at the other site no correlation was found. Seasonal differences in mean fructose content of the mosquitoes were found. Among the 94 blood-fed females (belonging to 6 species) that were collected, 71% were fructose positive (n = 67) and in different ovarian stages."
337	Rubus pubescens	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
338	Spiraea bumalda	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
339	Spiraea japonica	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
340	Spiraea latifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Culex restuans	Culex restuans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
341	Spiraea latifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
342	Spiraea rosalba	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
343	Spiraea salicifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
344	Spiraea tomentosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Anopheles walkeri	Other Anopheles species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
345	Spiraea tomentosa	Rosaceae	Yes 	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
346	Spiraea latifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Culiseta inornata	Culiseta species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
347	Hamelia patens	Rubiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Identification 	Present	Field_Lab	Manda_2007_42	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, E. Nyandat, E. W. Kabiru, R. R. Jackson, W. A. Foster, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier and A. Hassanali"	Discriminative feeding behaviour of Anopheles gambiae s.s. on endemic plants in western Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	21 (1)	103-111	10.1111/j.1365-2915.2007.00672.x	"Anopheles gambiae Giles s.s. (Diptera: Culicidae) is known to feed on plant sugars, but this is the first experimental study to consider whether it discriminates between plant species. Thirteen perennial plant species were selected on the basis of their local availability within the vicinity of human dwellings and larval habitats of An. gambiae s.s. in western Kenya. Groups of 100 or 200 mosquitoes were released into cages either with a cutting of one plant type at a time (single-plant assay) or with cuttings of all 13 plants simultaneously (choice assay), respectively, and left overnight. In the choice assay, direct observations of the percentages of mosquitoes perching or feeding on each plant were recorded over four 1-h periods each night. For both types of assay, mosquitoes were recaptured and the percentage that had fed on plants was assessed by testing them individually for the presence of fructose. To identify which plants the choice-assay mosquitoes had fed on, gas chromatography (GC) profiles of samples of mosquito homogenates were compared with GC profiles of extracts from relevant parts of each plant. Four of the plants that were observed to have been fed on most frequently in the choice assay (Parthenium hysterophorus L., Tecoma stans L., Ricinus communis L., and Senna didymobotrya Fresen) were also shown to have been ingested most often by mosquitoes in both types of assay, suggesting that An. gambiae is differentially responsive to this range of plants, regardless of whether the plants were presented singly or mixed together. Significantly more females than males fed on plants, with the exception of P. hysterophorus L., one of the plants most frequently fed on. For most plant species (ten of 13), GC profiles indicated that An. gambiae obtained sugars primarily from flowers. The exceptions were P. hysterophorus L., Lantana camara L. and R. communis L., on which An. gambiae fed more often from leaves and stems than from flowers."
348	Hamelia patens	Rubiaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Manda_2007_220	2007	"H. Manda, L. C. Gouagna, W. A. Foster, R. R. Jackson, J. C. Beier, J. I. Githure and A. Hassanali"	Effect of discriminative plant-sugar feeding on the survival and fecundity of Anopheles gambiae	Malaria Journal	6 (1)	113	10.1186/1475-2875-6-113	A previous study showed for Anopheles gambiae s.s. a gradation of feeding preference on common plant species growing in a malaria holoendemic area in western Kenya. The present follow-up study determines whether there is a relationship between the mosquito's preferences and its survival and fecundity.
349	Zanthoxylum americanum	Rutaceae	Yes	Aedes provocans	Aedes provocans	Canada 	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Field_Lab	Gadawski_1992_111	1992	R. M. Gadawski and S. M. Smith	Nectar sources and age structure in a population of Aedes provocans (Diptera: Culicidae)	Journal of medical entomology	29 (5)	879-886	10.1093/jmedent/29.5.879	"Gonotrophic-age structure of a population of Aedes provocans (Walker) and nectar sources used by adults were studied for 2 yr at a field site near Belleville, Ontario, Canada. Females emerged during a short period, and aging of the population was highly synchronous. Complete parity of the population was achieved within about 17 d in 1978 and 27 d in 1979. Some females completed as many as four gonotrophic cycles. This synchronous pattern of population aging is compared with patterns in other species of snow-melt Aedes, which typically age much more gradually. The pattern of synchronous aging permitted estimation of daily mortality rates from an index of population size derived from human-bait catches; peaks in the biting index were related to each gonotrophic cycle in the population. Nectar sources for adults were ranked according to abundance and the extent to which they were used by Ae. provocans, permitting a coarse, semiquantitative estimate of preferences. Ae. provocans obtained nectar from the extrafloral nectaries of one species and the floral nectaries of 19 species of angiosperms. Shrubs and trees, especially of the Rosaceae (primarily species of Prunus), were particularly important as nectar sources and bloomed concurrently with the appearance of nulliparous females. Sharp declines in the population of Ae. provocans were associated with the cessation of blooming of these plant species. It is hypothesized that the highly synchronous pattern of gonotrophic aging in Ae. provocans was attributable, in part, to the ready availability of nectar sources and bloodmeal hosts near breeding sites"
350	Salix spp.	Salicaceae	Yes 	Aedes excrucians	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
351	Buddleja davidii	Scrophulariaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
352	Datura stramonium 	Solanaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
353	"Tamarix chinensis        
"	Tamaricaceae	Yes	Aedes albopictus	Aedes albopictus	Israel	"Identification, Application"	Present	Field	Müller_2011_41	2011	"G. C. Müller, R. D. Xue and Y. Schlein"	"Differential attraction of Aedes albopictus in the field to flowers, fruits and honeydew"	Acta Tropica	118 (1)	45-49	10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.01.009	"Sugar is the main source of energy for the activities of mosquitoes; however, information on the vital sugar feeding of Aedes albopictus in the field is scanty and often anecdotal. Using glue traps and baits, we evaluated the attraction of Ae. albopictus to 28 different, potential sugar sources. Control traps were baited with either sugar-water solution or water alone, and since there was no significant difference between these controls, the water control was used as the standard for comparison. The total catch amounted to 1347 females and 1127 males. An attraction index (mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the baits/mean number of mosquitoes attracted to the control) was used to compare the relative attraction of the baits. The attraction index of significantly attractive baits ranged from 2.5 to 50.0 and the index of others ranged from 0.50 to 2.75. None of the baits were repellent. Significantly high attraction was observed for four of six ornamental flowers (Tamarix chinensis, Vitex agnus-castus, Polygonum baldchuanicum, Buddleja davidii), four of eleven wild flowers (Prosopis farcta, Ziziphus spina-christi, Polygonum equisetiforme, Ceratonia siliqua), the only tested seed pod when damaged and fermenting (C. siliqua), and all five of the tested fruits: Opuntia ficus indica (sabra), Ficus carica (fig), Punica granatum (pomegranate, damaged), Eriobotyra japonica (loquat), and Rubus sanctus (raspberry). Unlike damaged, fermenting carob seed pods and pomegranates, the fresh fruits were not attractive. Attraction to foliage soiled with honeydew excretion of three different aphid species was also not significant. The potential to use attractive sugar sources for mosquito control is discussed. "
354	Tamarix jordanis	Tamaricaceae	High	Culex pipiens	Culex pipiens	Israel	Applications	Present	Field	Schlein_2008_13	2008	Y. Schlein and G. C. Müller	An approach to mosquito control: Using the dominant attraction of flowering Tamarix jordanis trees against Culex pipiens	Journal of Medical Entomology	45 (3)	384-390	10.1093/jmedent/45.3.384	"In this study, we identified blossoms that attract Culex pipiens L. s.l. in a Mediterranean habitat by using branches of 26 common plant species as baits for traps. The highest catch, 60.5% of the total, by flowers of Tamarix jordanis Boiss., was ≈6 times greater than the 10.7% caught by flowering Polygonum equisetiforme Sm., and 10 times higher than the 6.6% caught by flowers of Acacia saligna (Lindle) H. L. Wendl. The catch elicited by the other plants ranged between 4.0 and 0.1%. Plant attraction also was evaluated in a field situation. Experimental and control sites were similar strips of vegetation along water channels with T. jordanis trees in the center. In the experimental site, these trees were sprayed with sucrose solution, food dye, and oral insecticide (Spinosad). Concurrently, patches of plant species and trees in the control site were sprayed with solutions of sucrose and different food dye markers. Cx. pipiens populations in both sites were monitored. The highest proportion (65.2%) of the marked mosquitoes in the control site carried the dye of flowering T. jordanis. The dye of flowering P. equisetiforme and that of A. saligna were found, respectively, in 8.1 and 3.5% of the labeled mosquitoes. The marker of reed groups (Phragmites australis [Cav.] Steudel) above the water was found in 19.4% of mosquitoes, whereas the different marker of dry land reeds was found in only 0.4% of the labeled mosquitoes. In the experimental site, after treatment, the mosquitoes decreased from ≈255 per trap to ≈24 mosquitoes per trap, whereas the catch in the control site reached ≈400 mosquitoes per trap."
355	Tamarix nilotica	Tamaricaceae	Yes 	Anopheles sergentii	Anopheles sergentii	Israel	Identification	Previously studied	Lab	Junnila_2010_160	2010	"A. Junnila, G. C. Muller and Y. Schlein, "	Species identification of plant tissues from the gut of An. sergentii by DNA analysis	Acta Tropica	115 (3)	227-233	10.1016/j.actatropica.2010.04.002	"There are three commonly used assays to identify plant material in insect guts: the cold anthrone test for fructose, the cellulose staining test for visualizing plant tissue and gas chromatography for seeking unique sugar content profiles. Though sugar and cellulose tests can distinguish between the general sources of sugar meal (nectar versus tissue), they cannot identify the species of plant sources. Even gas chromatography profiles can be problematic; there are reported instances of intra-specific variation as well as inter-specific and intergeneric variation that can mar results. Here, we explore the potential for DNA analysis to help resolve this issue. First, Anopheles sergentii were exposed to branches of two species of highly attractive flowering bushes in the laboratory and the great majority (_90–98%) were positive for sugar from nectar while very few were positive for cellulose (_0.5–8%) and DNA (6–19%). Moreover, laboratory An. sergentii showed opposing preferences, tending to obtain sugar from nectar of one plant (Tamarix nilotica) but to feed more on tissue from the other (Ochradenus baccatus). An. sergentii are exposed to a wide variety of plants in their natural desert habitats and in the absence of flowers in the dry season, they resort to feeding specifically on tissues of a few plants. According to DNA analysis the favorite plants were Suaeda asphaltica, Malva nicaeensis and Conyza dioscoridis, which are succulents that account for less than 1% of vegetation in the area."
356	Tamarix nilotica 	Tamaricaceae	Yes 	Anopheles sergentii 	Anopheles sergentii 	Israel	Applications	"Present, Characteristics"	Field	Müller_2006_168	2006	G. Müller and Y. Schlein	Sugar questing mosquitoes in arid areas gather on scarce blossoms that can be used for control	International Journal for Parasitology	36 (10)	1077-1080	10.1016/j.ijpara.2006.06.008	"Floral nectar sugars provide energy for mosquito activities. We presumed that scarce flowering trees in arid areas are attractive, central sugar sources and tested the assumption in the southern desert of Israel. In traps baited with flowers of Acacia raddiana, Tamarix nilotica or Ochradenus baccatus the catch of Anopheles sergentii was _35–75 times greater than with baits of flowerless branches. At a small isolated oasis, a spray of sugar and food-dye solution on the few flowering A. raddiana trees dye-labelled 80–90% of A. sergentii. At a similar oasis, this spray with addition of oral insecticide, virtually eliminated the local mosquitoes."
357	Tamarix pentandra	Tamaricaceae	Yes	Aedes vexans	Aedes vexans	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
358	Heracleum maximum 	Umbelliferae	Yes	Aedes dorsalis	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
359	Heracleum maximum 	Umbelliferae	Yes	Aedes excrucians	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
360	Heracleum maximum 	Umbelliferae	Yes	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
361	Duranta erecta	Verbenaceae	High	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles arabiensis	Reunion islands	"Identification, Effect"	"Present, Previously studied"	Lab	Gouagna_2014_170	2014	"L. C. Gouagna, R. Kerampran, C. Lebon, C. Brengues, C. Toty, D. A. Wilkinson, S. Boyer and D. Fontenille"	"Sugar-source preference, sugar intake and relative nutritional benefits in Anopheles arabiensis males"	Acta Tropica	132	S70-S79	10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.022	"Plant-derived sugar is the only source of dietary carbohydrate for males of most mosquito species. Male resource acquisition and utilization remain an under-researched area of behavior in vectors of human diseases. However, the renewed interest in the use of sterile males against disease vector mosquitoes reinforces the urgent need for studies on the behavioral and ecological processes that underpin male fitness and reproductive success. Here an attempt was made first to characterize the conditions and modes of resource acquisition (plant derived sugar meals) early in the life of An. arabiensis males, and second to test the hypothesis that the plants chosen for their sugar meals are those which maximize their fitness in terms of energy gains (i.e. amount of lipids, proteins, glycogen and glucose). Olfactometry assays demonstrated the ability of An. arabiensis males to discriminate among a sample of ten abundant flowering plants present in their natural habitats. In further experiments, we observed significant variations in the sugar intake rates that matched their olfactory preferences, with the most attractive plants eliciting significantly higher sugar intake rates. Consistent with our expectations, analyses of the whole-body free sugars, lipids and glycogen unequivocally showed that the energy reserve accumulated post-feeding is dependent on the diet of the adult males, with the preferred plants providing more energy reserves than the less preferred ones, despite mosquitoes actively feeding on both. Taken together, these results show that An. Arabiensis males are able to discern between food sources, preferentially feeding on those species of plant that provide the highest metabolic payoff. Ensuring or somehow heightening the ability to detect and obtain rewarding sugar meals by male mosquitoes reared for field release could enhance their competitive ability in the field. "
362	Lantana camara	Verbenaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	Kenya	"Identification, Effect"	Present	Lab_Semifield	Impoinvil_2004_206	2004	"D. E. Impoinvil, J. O. Kongere, W. A. Foster, B. N. Njiru, G. F. Killeen, J. I. Githure, J. C. Beier, A. Hassanali, B. G. J. Knols"	Feeding and survival of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae on plants growing in Kenya	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	18 (2)	108-115	10.1111/j.0269-283X.2004.00484.x	"The propensity of the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) to ingest sugars from various plants, and subsequent survival rates, were assessed with laboratory-reared males and females offered eight species of plants commonly cultivated and/or growing wild in western Kenya. In cages (no-choice bioassay), mosquitoes given the opportunity to feed on castorbean (Ricinus communis L.) had the longest survival times (mean and median survival time of 6.99?±?0.23 and 5.67?±?0.17?days, respectively), comparable to mosquitoes given 6% glucose (mean and median survival time of 8.70?±?0.23 and 6.67?±?0.33?days, respectively). Survival rates of An.?gambiae were low on the other plants, comparable to mosquitoes given only water. Three plants: sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L.), wild sage (Lantana camara L.) and castorbean provided levels of sugar ingestion by both sexes of An.?gambiae detectable using the cold anthrone method, showing a positive correlation between median survival and sugar consumption (Spearman rank correlation coefficient?=?0.905, P?<?0.0001). Equal numbers of males and females were released in an enclosed semi-field screenhouse system containing a range of local plants, but no host for blood, and allowed to feed ad libitum: 6.7?±?0.5% (11/64) of those recaptured were found to contain detectable fructose (all females). Common plants are clearly a viable source of nutrition for adult female An.?gambiae, as well as males, and may constitute and important resource for this important malaria vector."
363	Lantana camara	Verbenaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US	Effect	Previously studied	Lab	Nikbakhtzadeh_2016_171	2016	"M. R. Nikbakhtzadeh, J. W. Terbot and W. A. Foster"		Journal of Medical Entomology	53 (5)	1105-1111	10.1093/jme/tjw067	"Mosquitoes derive energy from plant sugar, thereby promoting survival and reproduction. Its survival value to females plays a key role in the vectorial capacity of mosquito populations. Previous olfactometry assays of responsiveness demonstrated that Senna didymobotrya Fresenius, Parthenium hysterophorus, L. Senna occidentalis, (L) and Lantana camara L were among the most attractive plants for the Mbita strain of Anopheles gambiae s.s. Giles in eastern Africa. Here, we provide experimental evidence that three of these four species also provide varying but substantial amounts of sugar for mosquito survival, whereas a fourth does not. Rank order of survival of both sexes of mosquitoes housed with these plants was as follows: S. didymobotrya was highest, followed by S. occidentalis and L. camara, whereas survival on P. hysterophorus was only slightly better than on only water. A positive control group, housed with 10% sucrose, survived well but fell significantly short of those with S. didymobotrya. A causal connection between survival and sugar availability was established by exposing mosquitoes to plants overnight, and then testing them for the presence and amount of undigested fructose. Fructose positivity was most frequent in those exposed to L. camara, whereas greatest amounts of fructose were obtained from S. occidentalis and S. didymobotrya. Parthenium hysterophorus scored lowest in both categories. We conclude that attractiveness and sugar availability are often, but not always, concordant. It remains unclear why P. hysterophorus should be attractive if it offers little sugar and does not prolong survival. Furthermore, the cause behind the superior survival benefit of S. didymobotrya, compared with 10% sucrose, is unknown."
364	Lantana camara 	Verbenaceae	Yes 	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Stone_2012_50	2012	"C. M. Stone, B. T. Jackson and W. A. Foster"	Effects of plant-community composition on the vectorial capacity and fitness of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae	The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	87 (4)	727-736	10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0123	"Dynamics of Anopheles gambiae abundance and malaria transmission potential rely strongly on environmental conditions. Female and male An. gambiae use sugar and are affected by its absence, but how the presence or absence of nectariferous plants affects An. gambiae abundance and vectorial capacity has not been studied. We report on four replicates of a cohort study performed in mesocosms with sugar-poor and sugar-rich plants, in which we measured mosquito survival, biting rates, and fecundity. Survivorship was greater with access to sugar-rich plant species, and mortality patterns were age-dependent. Sugar-poor populations experienced Weibull mortality patterns, and of four populations in the sugar-rich environment, two female and three male subpopulations were better fitted by Gompertz functions. A tendency toward higher biting rates in sugar-poor mesocosms, particularly for young females, was found. Therefore, vectorial capacity was pulled in opposing directions by nectar availability, resulting in highly variable vectorial capacity values."
365	Lantana camara 	Verbenaceae	Yes	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles gambiae	US 	Effect	"Previously studied, Characteristics"	Semifield	Ebrahimi_2018_11	2018	"B. Ebrahimi, B. T. Jackson, J. L. Guseman, C. M. Przybylowicz, C. M. Stone and W. A. Foster"	Alteration of plant species assemblages can decrease the transmission potential of malaria mosquitoes	Journal of Applied Ecology	55 (2)	841-851	10.1111/1365-2664.13001	"Knowledge of the link between a vector population's pathogen-transmission potential and its biotic environment can generate more realistic forecasts of disease risk due to environmental change. It also can promote more effective vector control by both conventional and novel means. This study assessed the effect of particular plant species assemblages differing in nectar production on components of the vectorial capacity of the mosquito Anopheles gambiae s.s., an important vector of African malaria. We followed cohorts of mosquitoes for 3 weeks in greenhouse mesocosms holding nectar-poor and nectar-rich plant species by tracking daily mortalities and estimating daily biting rates and fecundities. At death, a mosquito's insemination status and wing length were determined. These life-history traits allowed incorporation of larval dynamics into a vectorial capacity estimate. This new study provided both novel assemblages of putative host plants and a human blood host within a nocturnal period of maximum biting. Survivorship was significantly greater in nectar-rich environments than nectar-poor ones, resulting in greater total fecundity. Daily biting rate and fecundity per female between treatments was not detected. These results translated to greater estimated vectorial capacities in the nectar-rich environment in all four replicates of the experiment (means: 1,089.5 ± 125.2 vs. 518.3 ± 60.6). When mosquito density was made a function of survival and fecundity, rather than held constant, the difference between plant treatments was more pronounced, but so was the variance, so differences were not statistically significant. In the nectar-poor environment, females' survival suffered severely when a blood host was not provided. A sugar-accessibility experiment confirmed that Parthenium hysterophorus is a nectar-poor plant for these mosquitoes. Synthesis and applications. This study, assessing the effect of particular plant species assemblages on the vectorial capacity of malaria mosquitoes, highlights the likelihood that changes in plant communities (e.g. due to introduction of exotic or nectar-rich species) can increase malaria transmission and that a reduction of favourable nectar sources can reduce it. Also, plant communities' data can be used to identify potential high risk areas. Further studies are warranted to explore how and when management of plant species assemblages should be considered as an option in an integrated vector management strategy."
366	Lantana camara_nectar mimic	Verbenaceae	Yes 	Culex quinquefasciatus	Other Culex species	US 	Effect	Characteristics	Lab	Vrzal_2010_12	2010	"E. M. Vrzal, S. A. Allan and D. A. Hahn"	Amino acids in nectar enhance longevity of female Culex quinquefasciatus mosquitoes	Journal of Insect Physiology	56 (11)	1659-1664	10.1016/j.jinsphys.2010.06.011	"Culex mosquitoes feed on a wide range of nectars consisting of mostly carbohydrates and amino acids, however, little is known about the utilization and effects of these different carbohydrates and their accompanying amino acids on longevity. Culex quinquefasciatus larvae were reared on low- and high-quantity food diets to produce adults that were nutritionally representative of wild-caught and laboratory-reared mosquitoes. Emerging adults reared on low- or high-quantity food diets as larvae were then provided Lantana camara nectar mimics containing mixtures of carbohydrates and amino acids to evaluate effects of nectar amino acids on longevity. Carbohydrates (with or without amino acids) were a critical component of the adult diet, and in their absence, adult mosquitoes died within 3–5 days. The nectar mimic that contained both carbohydrates and amino acids did not increase adult longevity of males originating from either poorly or well-fed larvae. However, females receiving adult diets containing both carbohydrates and amino acids lived 5% longer than females fed adult diets with only sugar."
367	Stachytarpheta urticifolia	Verbenaceae	High	Anopheles gambiae	Anopheles arabiensis	Reunion islands	"Identification, Effect"	"Present, Previously studied"	Lab	Gouagna_2014_170	2014	"L. C. Gouagna, R. Kerampran, C. Lebon, C. Brengues, C. Toty, D. A. Wilkinson, S. Boyer and D. Fontenille"	"Sugar-source preference, sugar intake and relative nutritional benefits in Anopheles arabiensis males"	Acta Tropica	132	S70-S79	10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.022	"Plant-derived sugar is the only source of dietary carbohydrate for males of most mosquito species. Male resource acquisition and utilization remain an under-researched area of behavior in vectors of human diseases. However, the renewed interest in the use of sterile males against disease vector mosquitoes reinforces the urgent need for studies on the behavioral and ecological processes that underpin male fitness and reproductive success. Here an attempt was made first to characterize the conditions and modes of resource acquisition (plant derived sugar meals) early in the life of An. arabiensis males, and second to test the hypothesis that the plants chosen for their sugar meals are those which maximize their fitness in terms of energy gains (i.e. amount of lipids, proteins, glycogen and glucose). Olfactometry assays demonstrated the ability of An. arabiensis males to discriminate among a sample of ten abundant flowering plants present in their natural habitats. In further experiments, we observed significant variations in the sugar intake rates that matched their olfactory preferences, with the most attractive plants eliciting significantly higher sugar intake rates. Consistent with our expectations, analyses of the whole-body free sugars, lipids and glycogen unequivocally showed that the energy reserve accumulated post-feeding is dependent on the diet of the adult males, with the preferred plants providing more energy reserves than the less preferred ones, despite mosquitoes actively feeding on both. Taken together, these results show that An. Arabiensis males are able to discern between food sources, preferentially feeding on those species of plant that provide the highest metabolic payoff. Ensuring or somehow heightening the ability to detect and obtain rewarding sugar meals by male mosquitoes reared for field release could enhance their competitive ability in the field. "
368	Verbena stricta	Verbenaceae	Yes	Aedes sticticus	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
369	Apocynum androsaemifolium	Apocynaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
370	Apocynum androsaemifolium	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
371	Asclepias incarnata	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
372	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
373	Achillea millefolium	Asteraceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
374	Eupatorium perfoliatum	Asteraceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
375	Liatris aspera	Asteraceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
376	Solidago spp.	Asteraceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
377	Tanacetum vulgare	Asteraceae 	Yes	Coquillettidia richardii	Coquillettidia species	Sweden	Identification 	"Present, Previously studied"	Field_Lab	Andersson_1987_106	1987	I. H. Andersson and T. G. T. T. Jaenson	"Nectar feeding by mosquitoes in Sweden, with special reference to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium"	Medical and Veterinary Entomology	1 (1)	59-64	10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00323.x	"1. Nectar feeding by mosquitoes collected from tansy Tanacetum vulgar_e flowers was studied in July and August 1983_85 at two sites in central and south_western Sweden. Prior to fructose analysis, gonotrophic state and parity was determined. 2. A total of 1010 mosquitoes (70% males) of eighteen species was collected. Fructose was detected in 75% of the males and 78% of the females. Most (86%) mosquitoes collected belonged to Culex pipiens and Cx torrentium. 3. Among 219 Cx pipiens females, for most of which the abdomen appeared gravid (52%) or empty (42%), 81% were fructose_positive. Females of other species were also proved to have fed on plant sugars in both early and later stages of the gonotrophic cycle. 4. In Cx pipiens and males of Cx torrentium peak nectar feeding occurred between 22.00 and 04.00 hours. Data for males of both species suggested a V_shaped pattern of nectar feeding activity during the night. 5. At about 16oC nearly all mosquitoes became fructose_negative in the anthrone test within 20 h after collection from tansy flowers. 6. At least 44% of Cx pipiens females that were attracted to a dove_baited trap had fed on plant sugars shortly before. "
378	Euphorbia corollata	Euphorbiaceae	Yes 	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
379	Philadelphus californicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
380	Philadelphus caucasicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
381	Philadelphus coronarius	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
382	Nepeta cataria	Lamiaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
383	Lilium regale	Liliaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
384	Syringa reticulata	Oleaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
385	Phlox paniculata	Polemoniaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
386	Dasiphora fruticosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
387	Spiraea latifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
388	Spiraea tomentosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
389	Heracleum maximum 	Umbelliferae	Yes	Coquillettidia perturbans	Coquillettidia species	US 	Identification 	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
390	Asclepias syriaca	Apocynaceae	Yes 	Aedes excrucians	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Grimstad_1974_112	1974	P. R. Grimstad and G. R. DeFoliart	Nectar sources of Wisconsin mosquitoes	Journal of medical entomology	11 (3)	331-341	10.1093/jmedent/11.3.331	"In studies in Wisconsin, the attraction of mosquitos to flowers was investigated starting at 5 p.m. and most collecting being carried out after sunset. A piece of red cellophane placed over the glass of a torch enabled the mosquitos to be collected without disturbance. Sixteen of 57 species of flowers served as nectar sources in one area, 6 of 17 at a second and 5 of 19 at a third, giving a total of 23 species of flowers visited. A total of 3752 mosquitos representing 23 species was collected and the proportion of males : females was 1.04 : 1. Ox-eye daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca) and goldenrod (Solidago spp.) were usually the dominant plants in floral populations where they occurred and their flowering sequence resulted in a continuous nectar source for mosquitos. Their relative attraction for mosquitos sometimes changed suddenly; this change appeared to be determined by the age of the flowers."
391	Spiraea latifolia	Rosaceae	Yes	Mansonia perturbans	Mansonia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
392	Potentilla fruticosa	Rosaceae	Yes	Mansonia perturbans	Mansonia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
393	Philadelphus coronarius	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Mansonia perturbans	Mansonia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
394	Philadelphus californicus	Hydrangeaceae	Yes	Mansonia perturbans	Mansonia species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."
395	Verbena stricta	Verbenaceae	Yes	Aedes punctor	Other Aedes species	US 	Identification	Present	Field	Sandholm_1962_66	1962	H. A. Sandholm and R. D. Price	Field  observations on the nectar feeding habits  of some Minnesota mosquitoes	Mosquito News	22 (4)	346-349		"A total of 1981 specimens representing 4 genera and 14 species of mosquitoes was captured in nature after imbibing nectar meals. They were taken from a large number of different plant species during the early night-time hours. Various factors, such as temperature, wind and rainfall, in addition to availability of the nectar, and the color, age and aroma of the flower, may affect the plant-feeding activity of the mosquito. The ease with which nectar-feeding mosquitoes are found and the variety of plants upon which they feed supports the belief that mosquitoes in nature may rely extensively upon nectar for satisfying their biological requirements."